"x"
"1" "
  


		Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
	


  Sup homies,Welcome to patch 7.15, the one where we dial back on the Cho’Gath update and tone down some of the dominant competitive picks in the game.For the competitive side of the game, Regional Finals are approaching. As a
    result, we’re trying to increase some variance at the highest levels of play, but also to create some stability, and that means many minor changes. To start, we’re giving some dominant champions love taps downwards, as well as showing some love to
    underplayed champions on the cusp of seeing professional play. So while it may look like a larger patch than usual, many of the changes are pretty small.Oh, and remember Urgot? Well, we’ve pimped his ride and now he’s headed to the battlefield
    as a brand new juggernaut, complete with knee-shotguns. We’ll say that one more time for you. Knee-shotguns. Check ‘em out.So get out there on the Rift and read up on Urgot’s abilities, or you’ll Dread Nought knowing what he does when he grinds you to pieces.
  
     Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Phillip \"Costy\" Costigan     Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
  
  Back to top


		Mid-Patch Updates
	

	
		
			
				7/27/2017 Bugfixes
			

			
				Our changes to Elise and Shyvana didn't properly stick to their alternate forms. While we considered waiting until 7.16 to fix the inconsistencies, we're ultimately making these two work the way the original patch notes said they would - not making further changes on top of that.
			

			
				Elise
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Elise's Spider Form wasn't properly affected by this patch's base AD reduction (50.5 to 47)
			

			
				Shyvana
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Shyvana's Dragon Form wasn't properly affected by this patch's armor increase (27.6 to 29)
			

		
	



	
		
			
				7/26/2017 Balance Update
			

			
				Sivir
			
			
				We wanted to help out Sivir's early game, but adding 30 damage to Boomerang Blade was way more than \"helping\". Shipping a buff that strong was a mistake on our part, and we're making an immediate correction before Sivir gets out of control.
			
			
				BOOMERANG BLADE DAMAGE 55/75/95/115/135 ⇒ 35/55/75/95/115
			

		
	


  Champions
    
      
        
        Urgot
        Urgot, The Dreadnought, will be updated with the launch of patch 7.15! For more details, check the following links:
          Champion Reveal
            Gameplay Teaser
            Champion Bio
            Champion Spotlight
          

          Head to the “Extras” section of Urgot’s Champion Reveal article above for high-res images of his updated base and skin splash art!
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Akali
        Passive AP Ratio up, W cooldown reduced.
        Akali already bops the people she’s supposed to be bopping. The problem is that even when she gets going, she doesn’t bring games to an end with enough reliability. 

        Passive - Twin Disciplines
        RATIO
          0.65 ability power
          ⇒
          0.75 ability power
        

        W - Twilight Shroud
        COOLDOWN
          20 seconds
          ⇒
          18 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Azir
        Late-game soldier damage up.
        Making Azir a more attractive option as a late game hypercarry against many of the current midlane picks (specifically those that don’t wreck him in lane).

        W - Arise!
        SOLDIER STAB DAMAGE
          50-170 (at levels 1-18)
          ⇒
          50-195 (at levels 1-18)
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Cho'Gath
        E base damage and % health damage decreased.
        After our changes to E - Vorpal Spikes last patch, Cho’s damage has ended up a bit overtuned. The slow makes it easier for Cho’Gath to land the rest of his damage, so his spikes don’t need to bring quite so much pain on their
          own.
        

        E - Vorpal Spikes
        DAMAGE
          20/35/50/65/80
          ⇒
          20/30/40/50/60
        
        RATIO
          4% target’s maximum health
          ⇒
          3% target’s maximum health
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Dr. Mundo
        E now increases magic resistance as Dr. Mundo takes magic damage.
        Historically, Dr. Mundo has succeeded as a late-game frontliner against multiple sources of magic damage. Like other tanks, burst mages can’t one-shot Mundo, but while other tanks are left battered after the initial barrage, Mundo’s healing brings
          him right back up to full. We’re doubling down on his anti-mage identity by giving him the tools to fight off sustained magic damage as well.

        E - Masochism
        newNO PAIN NO GAIN
          Taking magic damage or paying a health cost increases Dr. Mundo’s magic resistance by 2% (stacks up to 3/6/9/12/15 times)
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Ekko
        E cooldown reduced at early levels.
        Ekko fares pretty well against mages when his cooldowns are up, so we’re giving him the tools to engage more often.

        E - Phase Dive
        COOLDOWN
          11/10/9/8/7 seconds
          ⇒
          9/8.5/8/7.5/7 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Elise
        Base attack damage decreased.
        For how much mobility and lane pressure she has, Elise just clears too quickly. As well, it turns out that ranged basic attacks are pretty strong on junglers, giving them an easy way to apply red buff. We’re killing two birds with one stone by
          making Elise’s attacks a bit weaker.

        Base stats
        BASE ATTACK DAMAGE
          50.5
          ⇒
          47
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Ezreal
        Q cooldown reduced at early ranks.
        We’re giving Ezreal a small boost to help him find more trading opportunities in his first few levels, which should especially help Tear-rushing Ez’s in the scaling department.

        Q - Mystic Shot
        COOLDOWN
          6.5/6/5.5/5/4.5 seconds
          ⇒
          5.5/5.25/5/4.75/4.5 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Gangplank
        Passive damage up.
        Gangplank’s early-game weakness is a little too pronounced right now, as the Saltwater Scourge struggles to fight back when he should at least go even. We’re oiling up his blade for early tussles, where he’s more likely to trade with his sword
          than his barrels. This’ll help him hold his own while he banks that skrilla and transitions into the late game.

        Passive - Trial by Fire
        DAMAGE
          30-200 (at levels 1-18)
          ⇒
          45-215 (at levels 1-18)
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Gragas
        Base attack speed decreased. R cooldown increased at earlier ranks.
        Like Elise, Gragas just clears too quickly for all of the other tools he brings to the table. In addition, now that the timing on his ultimate has gotten more intuitive, we feel safe bringing up the cooldown.

        Base stats
        BASE ATTACK SPEED
          0.651
          ⇒
          0.625
        

        R - Explosive Cask
        COOLDOWN
          100/90/80 seconds
          ⇒
          120/100/80 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Irelia
        Ult cooldown reduced at early ranks.
        As the top lane meta continues its transition back toward all-out fighters, this should be the perfect opportunity for Irelia to thrive again. To help her contend with today’s top-lane titans we’re giving Irelia more frequent access to Transcendent
          Blades in the early game, allowing her to trade more aggressively.

        R - Transcendent Blades
        COOLDOWN
          110/85/60 seconds
          ⇒
          100/80/60 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Jinx
        W cooldown reduced.
        While Jinx’s primary damage pattern (basic attacking people for days) passes muster, we want to spice up some of the other tools in her kit. We’re giving Jinx a bit more leeway to try for more bold Zaps, whether for long-range poke or mid-combat
          slows.
        

        Q - Switcheroo!
        BUGFIX
          Runaan’s Hurricane bolts now properly deal Fishbones’s bonus attack damage to their primary targets
        

        W - Zap!
        COOLDOWN
          10/9/8/7/6 seconds
          ⇒
          8/7/6/5/4 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Kayn
        Ultimate bonus AD ratio increased. Duskblade now appropriately interacts with Kayn’s abilities.
        Kayn’s been on the Rift for a patch and we mostly like what his Darkin form is doing. However, Shadow Assassin has been struggling to keep up. Specifically, his burst when he goes all-in hasn’t been enough to consistently net kills - even when
          ahead - so we’re buffing his scaling.

        R - Umbral Trespass
        RATIO
          1.1 bonus attack damage
          ⇒
          1.5 bonus attack damage (Darkin form loses this ratio in favor of an enemy max health ratio, so is unaffected)
        

        Bugfixes
        Fixed a bug where R - Umbral Trespass wasn’t making Kayn ‘unseen’ for Duskblade of Draktharr’s Nightstalker proc
          Fixed a bug where Shadow Assassin's passive wasn’t amplifying damage-over-time (ex. Deathfire Touch) or proc (ex. Duskblade of Draktharr) effects
          Fixed a bug where Shadow Assassin's passive triggered against Fiora's W - Riposte, Pantheon’s W - Aegis Protection, and Shen's W - Spirit's Refuge even though there's no damage to amplify
          Fixed a bug where Kled's Q - Bear Trap on a Rope ended Kayn’s R - Umbral Trespass early.
          Fixed a bug where Kayn could cast R - Umbral Trespass on an enemy he attempted to damage when all of the damage was absorbed by a shield
        
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Lissandra
        Mana per level and base attack damage increased.
        Lissandra runs out of mana in extended late game brawls faster than we’d like, thanks to the high mana costs of her spells and low cooldown on Ice Shard. These changes should grant her a couple of extra spells before running empty in the late
          game, as well as open the door to more effective last hitting and harassing with basic attacks alone.

        Base stats
        BASE ATTACK DAMAGE
          50.536
          ⇒
          53
        
        MANA PER LEVEL
          50
          ⇒
          60
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Lux
        Q cooldown reduced at early levels, if W hits an ally when going out, the incoming shield is doubled for all allies and Lux herself.
        We’re giving Lux better opportunity to use Light Binding aggressively in lane without leaving herself exposed to ganks and engages for too long thereafter. We also think the Lady of Luminosity’s supportive capabilities are a bit underwhelming,
          so we're giving her a bit more power to protect her pals with well-aimed Prismatic Barriers.

        Q - Light Binding
        COOLDOWN
          15/14/13/12/11 seconds
          ⇒
          13/12.5/12/11.5/11 seconds
        

        W - Prismatic Barrier
        newSHIELD ME ONCE
          Hitting an ally with Prismatic Barrier as it’s going out doubles the shield granted when it’s coming back
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Nami
        Q cooldown reduced.
        We’re improving Aqua Prison’s uptime to bring Nami’s double bubble fantasy closer to an achievable reality.

        Q - Aqua Prison
        COOLDOWN
          14/13/12/11/10 seconds
          ⇒
          12/11/10/9/8 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Nasus
        E now shreds percent armor instead of a flat value. Q cooldown is halved during R.
        Nasus is supposed to be the late-game scaling juggernaut if he plays the laning phase right and gets stacked up. In practice, he ends up mostly hitting high-armor frontliners, and losing a lot of his expected efficiency as a result. Struggling
          to reach priority targets who kite well is an expected weakness of Nasus, but he should still feel impactful when he’s stuck hitting beefier targets. 

        E - Spirit Fire
        ARMOR REDUCTION
          20/25/30/35/40 flat armor reduction
          ⇒
          15/20/25/30/35 percent armor reduction
        

        R - Fury of the Sands
        newSPEEDY SAND
          While Nasus is empowered, Siphoning Strike’s cooldown is reduced by 50%
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Nautilus
        Q early damage up, ult cooldown reduced at ranks 1 and 2.
        These changes enhance Nautilus’s ability to lock down a priority target in fights and send an out-of-position carry into the deep.

        Q - Dredge Line
        BASE DAMAGE
          60/105/150/195/240
          ⇒
          80/120/160/200/240
        

        R - Depth Charge
        COOLDOWN
          140/110/80 seconds
          ⇒
          120/100/80 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Shyvana
        E now scales with total AD. Base armor increased.
        For a farm-heavy jungler, Shyvana gets pushed around by monsters too easily in the early game, and doesn’t scale well enough with damage when she does get a leg up on the competition.

        Base stats
        BASE ARMOR
          27.6
          ⇒
          29
        

        E - Flame Breath
        newMISSILE RATIO
          0.3 total attack damage
        
        newSCORCHED EARTH RATIO
          0.1 total attack damage per tick
        
        DRAGON FORM BASE IMPACT DAMAGE
          100-200 (at levels 1-18)
          ⇒
          100-160 (at levels 1-18)
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Singed
        Q particles more clear, especially for colorblind players. R now grants stats faster.
        Singed has shiny new abilities with his update, which means shiny new quality of life issues and bugs! We’ve fixed the ones who have come to light. We also hotfixed in a few balance-impacting changes partway through last patch, so if you haven’t
          seen those yet, feel free to make a quick detour.

        Q - Poison Trail
        newCLARITY
          Poison Trail’s opacity has been adjusted for colorblind mode and various skins. Riot Singed’s Poison Trail visuals now properly change color when colorblind mode is activated.
        

        R - Insanity Potion
        newCHUG CHUG CHUG
          Singed now correctly receives stats instantly, as opposed to sometimes having up to 0.25 seconds delay.
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Sivir
        Q damage increased.
        We’re giving Boomerang Blade more oomph to help Sivir out in the early game.

        Q - Boomerang Blade
        BASE DAMAGE
          25/45/65/85/105
          ⇒
          55/75/95/115/135
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Twisted Fate
        Movement speed increased.
        Twisted Fate really shines when he’s able to make an unexpected entrance in a side lane, gold card in hand. The problem is, he’s not moving fast enough to reliably seize those opportunities. 

        Base stats
        MOVEMENT SPEED
          330
          ⇒
          335
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Xerath
        W slow increased, R base damage at later levels increased.
        Xerath could be setting up plays a little bit better, be it for his own damage combo or for setting up ganks for his allies. His damage also tends to fall off as the match progresses, so we’re giving more power to help him out in the late game.

        W - Eye of Destruction
        SLOW
          10%
          ⇒
          25% (center zone slow unchanged at 60/65/70/75/80%)
        

        R - Rite of the Arcane
        BASE DAMAGE
          200/230/260
          ⇒
          200/240/280 (reminder: Xerath gets more charges per level)
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Zac
        Q cost and cooldown increased. W base damage decreased.
        Since his update, we’ve changed Zac more times than there have been patches (hotfixes). At this point, it’s time for us to talk seriously about the Blob-guard of the month and the direction we want to move him in. When we originally updated the
          tanks, we wanted to bring their damage down while giving them access to uniquely disruptive tools. In Zac’s case, that took the form of two new mechanics: a charged ult and a matchmaking service for two enemy units. Despite the constraints put
          on these abilities, Zac has been seeing pretty high success in executing them.We actually like the new disruption Zac brings to the playing field, but as a result, his damage has needed to go down. And down. And down again. We’ve
          figured out what we think is so out-of-line about Zac, and it’s his sustained presence, both consistent damage and healing. Like Gragas and Elise, Zac has too high a clearspeed to go along with his sweet ganks and massive disruption. As well,
          his sustain is inflated by Q creating two blobs, so we’re doubling its cost to account for that. This leaves Zac in a spot where he’ll take meaningful time and damage to clear his jungle, making ganks riskier and more of a sacrifice when they
          fail.
        

        Q - Stretching Strikes
        COST
          4%
          ⇒
          8% current health
        
        COOLDOWN
          12/11/10/9/8 seconds
          ⇒
          13/12/11/10/9 seconds
        

        W - Unstable Matter
        DAMAGE
          30/45/60/75/90
          ⇒
          15/30/45/60/75
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Ziggs
        W cooldown reduced.
        Due to its long cooldown, Satchel Charge tends to see more use as an escape tool than a catch tool. We think both cases are valid and interesting, so we're giving Ziggs more chances to fish for offensive cases.

        W - Satchel Charge
        COOLDOWN
          26/24/22/20/18 seconds
          ⇒
          24/21/18/15/12 seconds
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        Mid-Patch 7.14 Updates
        These changes were made partway through last patch. Just postin’ em here for visibility.

        Singed
        BASE HEALTH
          610
          ⇒
          580
        
        HEALTH GROWTH
          90
          ⇒
          85
        
        INSANITY POTION COOLDOWN
          100 seconds at all ranks
          ⇒
          120/110/100 seconds
        

        Nunu
        BASE HEALTH
          575
          ⇒
          535
        
        HEALTH GROWTH
          90
          ⇒
          85
        
        MOVEMENT SPEED
          350
          ⇒
          345
        
      
    
  

  Back to top
  Items
    
      
        
        Adaptive Helm
        Adaptive damage reduction increased.
        Amplifying Adaptive Helm’s unique strength to make it a more powerful answer to the threats it’s meant to combat.

        DAMAGE REDUCTION
          Damage taken from repeated instances of a spell or effect is reduced by
          15%
          ⇒
          20%
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Duskblade of Draktharr
        Nightstalker proc damage down; ranged proc no longer slows.
        While we wanted to make Duskblade a better purchase last patch, we definitely went overboard. We reined in Nighstalker’s damage partway through 7.14 and are following up with a more robust set of changes. Most importantly, Nightstalker is now
          less effective for ranged champions.

        Nightstalker proc
        INITIAL PATCH 7.14 DAMAGE
          105-360 (at levels 1-18)
        
        UPDATED PATCH 7.14 DAMAGE
          55-360 (at levels 1-18)
        
        PATCH 7.15 DAMAGE
          65-320 (at levels 1-18) for melee champions, 45-300 (at levels 1-18) for ranged champions
        
        removedRANGED SLOW
          Ranged Nightstalker procs no longer slow the target
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Knight's Vow
        Health decreased.
        The baseline stats on Knight’s Vow make it a tad too effective when champions aren’t taking advantage of its partner bonuses. We’re taking its health down a notch.

        HEALTH
          400
          ⇒
          350
        
      
    
  
  Back to top
  In-Client Chat
    
      
        This little easter egg has been in the client for a while, and now we're sharing the secret with everyone! /me is excited.

        HAVE FUN
          Starting a message with “/me” adds your summoner name to the front of the message and makes it look like a notification rather than a chat message. Use it to talk about yourself in the third person in pre-game lobbies, Clubs chat, and direct conversations.
        
        NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO USE THAT
          “/me” doesn’t work in champion select or in-game chat
        
      
    
  
  Back to top
  HUD Pings
    
      
        Players can now ping any item, not just active items!
      
    
  
  Back to top
  Attack Move
    
      
        Some players were already hacking the ability to rebind a-move to left-click, so we figure we’d give you the option to do so manually. Note: you use Left-Click for a surprising amount of things, and you’ll need to use Shift+Left-Click to do those
          things.
        

        CUSTOMIZATION
          We’ve added a toggle that adds attack-move commands to left clicks. You can still left click on HUD elements (ex. the item shop), but will issue attack-move commands to the target location beneath the HUD.
        
        OVERRIDE
          While this toggle is active, use SHIFT+Left Click to interact normally with the HUD without attack-moving in the process.
        
      
    
  
  Back to top
  Rotating Game Mode
    
      
        Claim the incredible power of Ascension to conquer the Crystal Scar of Shurima. Ascension is now live from 7/28/17 12:00 PT - 8/1/17 04:00 PT and 8/4/17 12:00 PT - 8/8/17 04:00 PT.
          
          TL;DR:
          Go 5v5 to claim the incredible power of Ascension by taking down Ancient Ascendant Xerath. Use Ascension to conquer the Crystal Scar of Shurima.
            First team to reach 200 points wins. Score:
            1 point for champion kills.
              3 points for capturing a Shuriman relic.
              5 points for landing the killing blow on an Ascended champion.
              2 points for each kill you acquire while Ascended.
            

          Go forth. Conquer. Ascend.
      
    
  
  Back to top
  Bugfixes
    
      
        Fixed a bug where Mordekaiser's W - Harvesters of Sorrow reactivation damage wasn't consistently applying to all enemies caught in overlapping circles
           Thresh's E - Flay no longer leaves enemies stunned for a brief moment after displacing them
          Inhibitors now accurately display the 20 Armor they have
          Cassiopeia now correctly plays her spell effort voiceover
          Spirit Fire Brand’s Passive - Blaze, E - Conflagration, and R - Pyroclasm no longer have higher volume levels compared to his classic skin.
          Snow Day Bard’s W - Caretaker’s Shrine no longer has a higher volume level compared to his classic skin.
          Singed’s corpse no longer triggers his Passive - Noxious Slipstream. Because, you know, he’s dead.
          Multiple Singed’s in a game no longer reset each other’s cooldown on Passive - Noxious Slipstream.
          Fixed a bug where - if Kindred used Q - Dance of Arrows to jump over a wall, the cast range of E - Mounting Dread would be permanently increased.
          Sweeping a ward no longer plays the sound effects to Heimerdinger’s E - CH-2 Electron Storm Grenade when he is in the game.
          Heimerdinger’s R - Upgraded!!! W - Hextech Micro-Rockets now correctly do reduced damage after the first hit to Baron Nashor.
          Heimerdinger’s RE - CH-3X Lighting Grenade no longer has the old AP ratio of 60% for the second and third bounces.
          Fixed a bug where Zac could channel E - Elastic Slingshot while under hard crowd control effects if he used it right before they were applied.
          Aatrox no longer spams encounter voiceover when moving near Tryndamere.
          Dynasty Ahri finally saw a doctor and no longer has a disjointed elbow.
          Headhunter Caitlyn’s W - Yordle Snap Traps are no longer less clear in brush compared to her other skins.
          VFX during Headhunter Caitlyn’s recall no longer disappear when losing and regaining vision.
          Winter Wonder Karma’s W - Inspire and RE - Defiance have been better differentiated from Winter Wonder Lulu’s E - Help, Pix!
          Slayer Pantheon's R - Grand Skyfall SFX are no longer delayed from enemy perspective. 
          Primetime Draven’s Q - Spinning Axe no longer uses Pool Party Daven’s SFX.
          Red Riding/Sweetheart Annie’s R - Tibbers now use appropriate fire SFX when spawned.
          Full Metal Jayce’s W - Hyper Charge custom VFX have been restored.
          Dawnbringer Riven no longer causes other Rivens in the same game to steal W - Ki Burst SFX.
          Pulsefire Ezreal’s W - Essence Flux on-hit SFX have been restored.
          The on-hit SFX volume for Pulsefire Ezreal’s R - Trueshot Barrage has been turned up to be equivalent to all other Ezreal skins.
          Winter Wonder Orianna’s recall poros have been dusted off and now use updated textures.
          Audio has been restored for Special Weapon Zac’s recall.
          Master Chef Tahm Kench’s belt no longer clips through his body during several animations.
          Corporate Mundo’s laugh VO is once again synchronized with the animation.
          Wildfire Zyra’s crown no longer stretches during several animations.
          Pieces of Heartseeker Quinn’s bracer no longer disappear during her laugh animation.
          Mundo Mundo/TPA Mundo no longer have visible seams on their models on low settings.
          Mecha Malphite no longer has visible seams on his model.
          Reattached a penguin’s leg in Snow Day Bard’s recall and joke!
          Soulhunter Kayn’s orb particles during his P - The Darkin Scythe are now more visible.
          Star Guardian Jinx’s weapon glow VFX now follow Shiro and Kuro during all animations.
          Star Guardian Jinx’s hair no longer transitions improperly during her homeguard animation. 
          Purple overlay no longer hides Malzahar’s skins when his Passive - Void Shift is active.
          Parts of Prehistoric Cho’Gath’s head armor no longer stretches during his dance animation.
          Headmistress Fiora once again has SFX during her joke animation.
          Pool Party Fiora’s audio no longer desyncs when losing and regaining vision during recall, joke and taunt animations.
          Re-added audio for SKT T1 Ekko’s recall.
          Fixed a bug where several ward skin health bars were too high or low.
          The following two Honor bugfixes will deploy during the patch.
          Champ Mastery level up notifications no longer pop over the Honor vote
          Fixed a bug where key fragment notifications would occasionally fail to pop
        
    
  
  Back to top
  Upcoming Skins
    
      
        The following skins will be released during patch 7.15:

        
          
            Omega Squad Fizz
          
            Omega Squad Tristana
          
            Omega Squad Twitch
          
            Omega Squad Veigar
        
      
    
  


"
"2" "
		


		Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
	
 



		
			Salutations, Summoners,
			Welcome to patch 7.14. This patch drops a lot of names we haven’t heard in a while, from Singed to Garen to Diana to… well at this point, we’re just rattling off the table of contents in random order. Many of these champions have been sitting in obscurity for a while, and we’re happy to dust them off.
			We’ve got some shake-ups on the item front as well. The Thornmail update gives tanky champs access to Grievous Wounds, with Bramble Vest as a stepping stone component along the lines of Hexdrinker, QSS, and other “I  build into a bigger version of myself” items. We’ve also taken the lethality items into the shop to ensure they’re offering assassins meaningful, satisfying choices.
			And finally, we'd be remiss not to mention the shadow lurking on the horizon. Keep an eye out for Kayn, not that it'll matter once he steps out from the wall behind you.
			Nothing personal, kid.
		
		
			 Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
		
		Back to top


		Mid-Patch Updates
	

	
		
			
				7/18/2017 Bugfixes
			

			
				Kayn
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug causing Kayn's UI to break, sometimes preventing him from transforming altogether
			
			
				BUGFIX Kled no longer ends up in a weird spot if Kayn uses R - Umbral Trespass on him to avoid the targeted dash at the end of R - Chaaaaaaaarge!!!
			

		
	



	
		
			
				7/17/2017 Balance Update
			

			
				Duskblade of Draktharr
			
			
				While we wanted to make Duskblade a better purchase, we definitely went overboard. Reining in Nightstalker's damage spike is a quick fix to curb the mid-game dominance its users are enjoying; further changes will likely follow in 7.15 as well.
			
			
				NIGHTSTALKER DAMAGE 105-360 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 55-360 (at levels 1-18)
			

		
	



	
		
			
				7/13/2017 Balance Update
			
			
			
				Singed
			
			
				We're reducing Singed's durability since the movement speed from his new passive has added significantly to his survivability in skirmishes and fights.
			
			
				BASE HEALTH 610 ⇒ 580
			
			
				HEALTH GROWTH 90 ⇒ 85
			
			
				INSANITY POTION COOLDOWN 100 seconds at all ranks ⇒ 120/110/100 seconds
			

			
				Nunu
			
			
				Last patch's hits to Nunu's survivability weren't enough to stop the yeti from rolling over his competition. So, we've got a few more.
			
			
				BASE HEALTH 575 ⇒ 535
			
			
				HEALTH GROWTH 90 ⇒ 85
			
			
				MOVEMENT SPEED 350 ⇒ 345
			

			
				Custom Games
			
			
				BUGFIX Players are once again able to trade champions in Champion Select for custom games
			

		
	



		Champions
		
			
				
					
					Kayn
					
						Kayn, the Shadow Reaper will be unleashed on the Rift later during patch 7.14. In the meantime, learn more about the shadow and his scythe here:
					
					
							Champion Teaser: The Path of Shadows
						
						
							Kayn Champion Spotlight
						
						
							Kayn Reveal
						
						
							Kayn Bio
						
						
							Kayn Short Story: The Blade of Millennia
						
					
						
							
							Kayn
						
						
							
							Soulhunter Kayn
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Alistar
					Damage reduction on R increased.
					
						Alistar has always needed to get up close and personal, but these days he has to stay there a bit longer to access the full extent of his crowd control. As a result, the Minotaur needs to be a bit tankier when he commits to a fight.
					
					R - Unbreakable Will
					
						DAMAGE REDUCTION 50/60/70% ⇒ 55/65/75%
					
					
						newCLARITY Now displays how much damage Unbreakable Will is mitigating per damage instance (visible only to Alistar and his attacker)
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Caitlyn
					Attack speed per level down.
					
						Our goals today are the same as patch 7.11: we’re continuing to trim strengths aside from Caitlyn’s primary contributions (smart trap placement and juicy Headshots). Our previous changes to reduce the Sheriff’s sustained damage in the late game didn’t go far enough in this direction so we’re continuing along the path.
					
					Base stats
					
						ATTACK SPEED GROWTH 4% ⇒ 2%
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Cho'Gath
					E now only applies to next three attacks, but does significantly more damage. Q mana cost down. W silence duration up at earlier ranks.
					
						In theory, Vorpal Spikes is a lot of consistent power for a melee character. In practice, Cho’Gath’s low mobility makes it a struggle to land more than a few attacks on any moving target. We’re windowing Vorpal Spikes so Cho’Gath only needs to land a few attacks to get the full value, and adding a slow to the ability to give him a better shot at doing so.
					
					updatedE - Vorpal Spikes
					Cho’Gath’s next 3 basic attacks launch spikes that damage and slow all targets hit.
					
						newCOOLDOWN 8/7/6/5/4 seconds
					
					
						newCOST 30 mana
					
					
						BASE DAMAGE 20/35/50/65/80 (+0.3 ability power) (unchanged)
					
					
						newMAX HEALTH DAMAGE 4% target’s maximum health (+0.5% per Feast stack)
					
					
						newDECAYING SLOW 30/35/40/45/50%, decaying over 1.5 seconds
					
					
						newSET AND SPIKE Now grants 50 extra basic attack range
					
					
						newSPEEDY SPIKES Now resets Cho’Gath’s basic attack timer
					
					
						BUGFIX Now correctly applies Hunter’s Talisman’s health drain
					
					Q - Rupture
					
						DAMAGE 80/135/190/245/305 ⇒ 80/135/190/245/300
					
					
						COST 90 mana ⇒ 60 mana
					
					W - Feral Scream
					
						SILENCE DURATION 1.5/1.625/1.75/1.875/2 seconds ⇒ 1.6/1.7/1.8/1.9/2 seconds
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Diana
					Passive’s attack speed now procs off spellcasts and increases with E rank. Passive attack now restores mana. Q cooldown reduced at early levels. W mana cost reduced at early levels.
					
						Diana’s a champion with fractured identities, sitting somewhere in the middle of assassin and diver, laner and jungler. While this multifaceted nature works for some champions, we’ve seen what happens when an assassin gets to be tanky, or when a diver gets to blow people up. This makes Diana difficult to tune on a patch-by-patch basis, since we can’t responsibly balance Diana around a single identity without first giving her the tools to succeed in that role. (Read: she needs an update.)
						In the meantime, it’s plain to see Diana simply isn’t fitting in anywhere. We’re tackling two aspects of Diana that hold true regardless of playstyle by alleviating some of her mana problems and better rewarding Diana for playing into her spellcaster/basic-attacker playstyle - the dual nature we’re happy to support.
					
					Passive - Moonsilver Blade
					
						ATTACK SPEED Passively grants 20% attack speed ⇒ Diana’s spellcasts grant 20% attack speed for her next 3 attacks, increasing with Moonfall’s rank
					
					
						newMANA RESTORE Moonsilver Blade’s attack restores mana equal to 15% of Diana’s ability power
					
					Q - Crescent Strike
					
						COOLDOWN 10/9/8/7/6 seconds ⇒ 8/7.5/7/6.5/6 seconds
					
					W - Pale Cascade
					
						COST 60/70/80/90/100 mana ⇒ 40/55/70/85/100 mana
					
					E - Moonfall
					
						newATTACK SPEED Increases Moonsilver Blade’s attack speed bonus to 50/60/70/80/90%
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Fiora
					Passive’s movement speed down. R no longer grants Duelist’s Dance’s movement speed when near the target.
					
						Playing around Vitals gives Fiora a lot of power, but her opponents are at too much of a disadvantage to stop her from doing so. When Fiora’s striking lone Vitals, the movement speed Duelist’s Dance provides often lets her escape retaliation. When Fiora goes all-in with her ultimate, the movement speed she gets allows her too much leeway to out-maneuver her opponent even before hitting any Vitals at all. In both cases, Fiora’s movement speed rewards need to be toned down so opponents have a fair chance to win the game of footsies.
					
					Passive - Duelist's Dance
					
						BONUS MOVEMENT SPEED 20/30/40/50% ⇒ 15/20/25/30%
					
					R - Grand Challenge
					
						removedDANCE FLOOR Grand Challenge no longer grants Duelist’s Dance’s movement speed while near the target
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Garen
					Passive modernization (and buff). W now grants damage reduction and tenacity briefly after activation, E AD ratio per spin up.
					
						Garen provides his opponents with a healthy amount of counterplay as his opponents learn to kite. This leaves Garen with not that much skill expression of his own, making the “skill” in “skill matchup” pretty one-sided. We’re giving Courage a skill check to make Garen a little less straightforward, letting the beastliest Garens flex their muscles and show off. While we were on Garen, we took this opportunity to modernize his passive by shifting it from a 3-tier model to one that transforms once around the end of laning phase.
						All in all, we still think there’s more that can be done to make Garen more compelling in the future, so take these changes as the start of a larger Garen conversation.
					
					Passive - Perseverance
					
						OUT OF COMBAT HEALTH REGEN 2%/4%/10% maximum health per 5 seconds (at levels 1/11/16) ⇒ 2%/8% maximum health per 5 seconds (at levels 1/11)
					
					
						OUT OF COMBAT TIMER 9/6/4 seconds (at levels 1/11/16) ⇒ 9/4 seconds (at levels 1/11)
					
					
						newDEMACIAN BOLDNESS Regeneration increases to 4/16% maximum health per 5 seconds when Garen is below 25/50% maximum health (at levels 1/11)
					
					W - Courage
					
						newCLARITY Now displays how much damage Courage is mitigating
					
					
						newSTEEL YOUR COURAGE Now grants Garen 60% damage reduction and tenacity for the first 0.75 seconds, returning to the normal 30% damage reduction for the remaining duration thereafter
					
					E - Judgment
					
						RATIO PER SPIN 34/35/36/37/38% total attack damage ⇒ 36/37/38/39/40% total attack damage
					
				
			
		


			
				
					
					Ivern
					W cast range decreased.
					
						We've begun a multi-patch project to assess which vision-granting abilities should give vision, and which ones just sort of... do (see below). In Ivern's case, Brushmaker generally requires an ally to walk into it to be valuable, and so we think the vision granted makes sense; itís just castable at too high a range. We're aware this has ramifications beyond Ivern's ability to scout, and if the change results in a larger power-down than expected (this is meant to hit Ivern's utility and safety) we'll follow up accordingly.
					
					W - Brushmaker
					
						CAST RANGE 1600 ⇒ 800
					
				
			
		

		
			
				
					
					Rammus
					Self-slow on W decreased in intensity.
					
						Defensive Ball Curl’s self-slow is proving a bit too painful for Rammus players, so we’re tuning it less aggressively. Plus, with this patch’s Thornmail update having less synergy with the Armordillo’s passive (less armor and less armor scaling on the new Thornmail), the Armordillo could use a buff anyway.
					
					W - Defensive Ball Curl
					
						SELF SLOW 60% ⇒ 30%
					
					
						BUGFIX Defensive Ball Curl now properly increases the size of Iceborn Gauntlet’s slow zone
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Singed
					New passive grants movement speed when passing by other champions. Base and scaling health increased. Q base damage down, AP scaling up. W now grounds enemies within it.
					
						Singed isn’t on our VGU list for the near future, so we wanted to find opportunities to bring Singed’s existing abilities into 2017. The big issues we wanted to address: his build inflexibility and his struggles against slippery champions.
						Empowered Bulwark meant that Singed relied on mana items for efficient durability. Instead, we’re giving him higher base durability and letting him itemize more freely. His new passive ensures Singed has the stickiness and closing power a growing melee champion needs.
						While Noxious Slipstream should assist him in getting to opponents, Singed is still harshly countered by slippery champions. Mega Adhesive grounding those standing within it should give Singed more of a chance to get to those champions.
						Finally, we’re shifting Poison Trail’s damage from base values into scaling so Singed can feel good about building damage when snowballing, rather than always feeling best about Righteous Glory.
					
					Base stats
					
						BASE HEALTH 542.76 ⇒ 610
					
					
						HEALTH GROWTH 82 ⇒ 90
					
					newPassive - Noxious Slipstream
					
						NAME Empowered Bulwark ⇒ Noxious Slipstream
					
					
						newNOXIOUS SLIPSTREAM When Singed passes within 225 range of a champion, he drifts off of them, gaining 20% bonus movement speed for 2 seconds. This effect has a champion-unique 10 second cooldown.
					
					
						removedEMPOWERED BULWARK Singed no longer gains health based on his maximum mana
					
					Q - Poison Trail
					
						BASE DAMAGE 44/68/92/116/140 ⇒ 40/60/80/100/120
					
					
						RATIO 0.6 ability power ⇒ 0.8 ability power
					
					
						updatedMORE CLOUDY Particle size increased to more clearly represent the poison’s area of effect
					
					
						BUGFIX Poison trail no longer visually disappears when Singed leaves enemies’ vision
					
					W - Mega Adhesive
					
						AREA DURATION 5 seconds ⇒ 3 seconds
					
					
						newEXTRA STICKY Now grounds units within the Mega Adhesive puddle
					
					
						SLOW 35/45/55/65/75% ⇒ 40% at all ranks
					
					
						removedLINGER Mega Adhesive’s slow no longer lingers for 1 second after enemies leave the puddle
					
					
						COST 70/80/90/100/110 mana ⇒ 60/70/80/90/100 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 14 seconds at all ranks ⇒ 17/16/15/14/13 seconds
					
					E - Fling
					
						COST 100/110/120/130/140 mana ⇒ 80/95/110/125/140 mana
					
					R - Insanity Potion
					
						COST 150 mana ⇒ 100 mana
					
					
						BONUS STATS 35/50/80 ⇒ 35/60/85
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Taric
					Mana regen increased at early levels. Q heals more; charge model updated. E cooldowns higher early; lower later. E deals more damage and stuns for the same duration at all ranks.
					
						While Taric’s ult makes him one of the best supports in the late game, the penalty he’s paying in the early game is currently too steep. Starlight’s Touch is lackluster at early ranks, but prioritizing it can feel like a trap since its mana cost shoots through the roof for the 10-healing-per-charge each rank provides. While the core concept of Starlight’s Touch remains the same, we’re updating most of the details to make it a much more satisfying part of Taric’s kit.
						We’re also upping Dazzle’s payoff. It’s a fairly difficult ability to land, and for how vulnerable Taric becomes when Dazzle misses, he deserves to win trades a bit more convincingly when it connects.
					
					Base stats
					
						MANA REGEN 5 per 5 seconds ⇒ 8.5 per 5 seconds
					
					
						MANA REGEN GROWTH 1 ⇒ 0.8
					
					Q - Starlight's Touch
					
						HEALING PER CHARGE 20/30/40/50/60 (+0.2 ability power) (+1.5% Taric’s bonus health) ⇒ 30 (+0.2 ability power)(+1% Taric’s maximum health)
					
					
						MAX CHARGES 3 at all ranks ⇒ 1/2/3/4/5
					
					
						COST 60/80/100/120/140 mana ⇒ 70/80/90/100/110 mana
					
					
						newCOOLDOWN 3 seconds
					
					
						RECHARGE RATE 15 seconds (unchanged)
					
					
						updatedBRAVADO Bravado-empowered attacks reduce Starlight’s Touch’s recharge timer by an additional 5 seconds ⇒ reduce Starlight’s Touch’s cooldown by 1 second and instantly grant a charge
					
					E - Dazzle
					
						DAMAGE 60/105/150/195/240 ⇒ 100/145/190/235/280
					
					
						COOLDOWN 15 seconds at all ranks ⇒ 17/16/15/14/13 seconds
					
					
						STUN DURATION 1/1.125/1.25/1.375/1.5 seconds ⇒ 1.25 seconds at all ranks
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Yorick
					Mist Walker base damage down early game. Maiden of the Mists health up late game. Mist Walkers more responsive, graves more consistent.
					
						Yorick does quite well in the early game, but the Shepherd of Souls falls off pretty hard as the game goes on. We want to support his mid-to-late-game split pushing fantasy, so we’re giving the Maiden more late-game durability and a lower cooldown to increase her uptime.
					
					Passive - Shepherd of Souls
					
						newMIST JUMPERS Mist Walkers now attack immediately upon landing from the E Jump
					
					
						MIST WALKER BASE DAMAGE 10-95 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 2-100 (at levels 1-18)
					
					
						MIST WALKER RATIO 0.3 total attack damage (unchanged)
					
					
						MOURNING MIST REACTION RANGE 1000 ⇒ 1400
					
					
						GRAVE DESPAWN RANGE 1600 ⇒ 2000
					
					R - Eulogy of the Isles
					
						COOLDOWN 160/150/140 seconds ⇒ 160/130/100 seconds
					
					
						BASE HEALTH 700/1500/3000 ⇒ 700/1500/4000
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					Mid-Patch 7.13 Balance Update
					
						The changes here were made partway through patch 7.13. We’re re-posting them here for anyone who missed ‘em in the update to the 7.13 patch notes.
					
					Nunu
					
						BASE HEALTH REGEN 7 per 5 seconds ⇒ 5 per 5 seconds
					
					
						ARMOR 26.38 ⇒ 23
					
					Zac
					
						STRETCHING STRIKES 2ND HIT RANGE 300 ⇒ 200
					
				
			
		
		Back to top
		Items
		
			
				
					updated
					Thornmail
					Now provides health. Now applies Grievous Wounds to attackers
					
						Against champions and teams that lean on heavy healing and regeneration effects, tanky melee types sometimes feel like they’re actually hurting their team by serving as convenient health batteries. While mages have Morellonomicon and other carries have Executioner’s Calling to help focus down healing-oriented threats, we wanted to make sure that melee champs can at least force high-sustain damage dealers to look elsewhere for their healing.
					
					
						BUILD PATH Cloth Armor + Chain Vest + 1250 gold ⇒ Bramble Vest + Ruby Crystal + Warden’s Mail + 400 gold
					
					
						TOTAL COST 2350 ⇒ 2900 gold
					
					
						ARMOR 100 ⇒ 75
					
					
						newHEALTH 250
					
					
						updatedUNIQUE PASSIVE - Thorns Upon being hit by a basic attack, reflects magic damage equal to 25 + 10% of your bonus Armor, inflicting Grievous Wounds on the attacker for 1 second.
					
					
						newUNIQUE PASSIVE - Cold Steel When hit by basic attacks, cripples source’s attack speed by 15% for 1 second.
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					new
					Bramble Vest
					
						Thornmail’s redesign makes it a strong answer to healing-heavy comps, but its price point is too high for it to serve as a timely reaction to an out-of-control threat. We’re introducing Bramble Vest to make the Thorns passive available at lower gold investments. This is a paradigm you’re probably familiar with on other items: Hexdrinker into Maw of Malmortius, Quicksilver Sash into Mercurial Scimitar, etcetera.
					
					
						BUILD PATH Cloth Armor + Cloth Armor + 300 gold
					
					
						ARMOR 35
					
					
						UNIQUE PASSIVE - Thorns Upon being hit by a basic attack, reflects 20 magic damage, inflicting Grievous Wounds on the attacker for 1 second.
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					updatedAncient Coin Line
					Quest reward now grants movement speed to approaching allies instead of an early skill point.
					
						While an early skill point was a unique and novel reward for Ancient Coin’s quest, it also didn’t line up well with what Coin’s core users want to do: guide their team into and out of fights (your Rakans, your Jannas). We’re replacing it with a more familiar effect that provides supports the means to serve as “GO HERE” guideposts for their teammates, giving them the edge when determining where a fight goes down.
					
					
						QUEST REWARD Favor is upgraded to Emperor’s Favor and you get an elixir that grants a bonus skill point ⇒ nearby allies gain 8% movement speed when moving toward you
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Randuin's Omen
					Build path updated. Grants more health.
					
						Randuin’s is the item to buy when you’re looking to counter crit-focused champions, but even then, it’s a bit weaker than it ought to be. We’re giving Randuin’s a bit more bang for the buck and changing its build path to make it easier to to pivot away from (or toward) as the situation warrants.
					
					
						BUILD PATH Ruby Crystal + Ruby Crystal + Warden’s Mail + 1100 gold ⇒ Giant's Belt + Warden's Mail + 900 gold (2900 gold total cost unchanged)
					
					
						HEALTH 350 ⇒ 400
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					Recommended Items Pass
					
						We’ve updated the default recommended items pages for a bunch of champions (mainly supports) to reflect some of the item updates from across the season.
					
				
			
		
		Back to top
		Lethality Items
		
			
				
					General Notes
					
						We originally introduced lethality to give us finer control over flat armor penetration’s impact at various points in the game and to separate assassin items from those of other physical damage dealers. As they exist today, lethality items are generally on the weak side and aren’t offering assassins real choice in their builds (just rush Ghostblade every game).
						Looking at the options, Youmuu’s Ghostblade (roaming power) and Duskblade of Draktharr (damage proc, vision denial) should be competing for an assassin’s first buy as the pure-offense Dirk upgrades. In practice, Duskblade is behind the curve on pretty much every front. We’re leveling the playing field between the two blades in terms of build path, cost, and stats to create a more compelling choice.
						As a result of this work, Ghostblade is reclaiming its monopoly on movement speed among armor penetration items. But, with mobility removed, the Dirk items need a different way to help assassins carry advantages forward. Changing lethality from enemy-scaling to self-scaling fills this gap while advancing our original goals by pushing it further away from bot-laners (who tend to be lower level).
						Final note: Dirk’s upgrades have generally lost attack damage and gained lethality. The idea here is similar to our durability work in midseason: siphon strength out of the generalist stat (attack damage) and into the specialized stat (lethality).
					
					
						SCALING Lethality grants armor penetration based on your target’s level ⇒ your level
					
					
						CLARITY Item tooltips now display the current amount of armor penetration lethality is granting you
					
					
						STATS Completed lethality items grant more lethality and (except for Edge of Night) less attack damage
					
					
						removedMOBILITY Except for Youmuu’s Ghostblade, lethality items no longer grant out-of-combat movement speed
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Serrated Dirk
					Passive updated to grant your next ability bonus damage after killing a unit.
					
						The Headhunter passive rewards assassins for premeditated trades and kill attempts, adding a chunk of damage to their combos if they last-hit a minion or monster before going on the offensive. It also serves as a wave or camp clearing tool for champions with area-effect abilities, enabling the roaming Dirk’s movement speed previously encouraged.
						Bonus context: Headhunter is basically Dirk’s original passive with a facelift. Where the previous version was a smaller, persistent effect best suited for ranged poke and harass (proccing off basic attacks and single-target spells), this one’s a larger effect on a cooldown that triggers off any damaging ability. Headhunter is better aimed at assassins than the original and should be more rewarding for them to play around.
					
					
						new? UNIQUE PASSIVE Headhunter: After killing an enemy, your next damaging spell will deal 40 bonus physical damage to all enemies it hits (30 second cooldown)
					
					
						removedOUT OF COMBAT MOVEMENT SPEED No longer grants 20 out of combat movement speed
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Poacher's Dirk
					
						Inheriting the changes to Serrated Dirk. This is a pretty significant buff to clearing speed!
					
					
						new? UNIQUE PASSIVE Headhunter: After killing an enemy, your next damaging spell will deal 40 bonus physical damage to all enemies it hits (30 second cooldown)
					
					
						removedOUT OF COMBAT MOVEMENT SPEED No longer grants 20 out of combat movement speed
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Duskblade of Draktharr
					Builds out of Caulfield’s Warhammer instead of B. F. Sword and grants cooldown reduction. Cost decreased. Lethality up, attack damage down. Nightstalker proc scales with level instead of lethality.
					
						Duskblade has the harshest build path of any Dirk upgrade as well as a passive that’s most effective in a glass cannon build (which leaves assassins susceptible to being blown up in fights before they can get their combos off). Both these factors make it unattractive as a first purchase, leaving Youmuu's as the only option for every AD assassin. To make Duskblade more competitive, we’re giving it Youmuu's cost and build path, and ensuring Nightstalker stands on its own even if Duskblade’s the only lethality item an assassin gets to buy.
					
					
						BUILD PATH Serrated Dirk + B. F. Sword + 850 gold ⇒ Serrated Dirk + Caulfield’s Warhammer + 700 gold
					
					
						TOTAL COST 3250 gold ⇒ 2900 gold
					
					
						LETHALITY 15 ⇒ 18
					
					
						ATTACK DAMAGE 65 ⇒ 55
					
					
						removedOUT OF COMBAT MOVEMENT SPEED No longer grants 20 out of combat movement speed
					
					
						newCOOLDOWN REDUCTION Now grants 10% cooldown reduction
					
					
						NIGHTSTALKER DAMAGE 75 (+2.0 lethality) true damage ⇒ 90 + 15 per level (105 - 360 at levels 1-18) physical damage
					
					
						newNIGHTSTALKER SLOW Nightstalker now slows the target by 99% for 0.25 seconds
					
					
						NIGHTSTALKER PROC WINDOW Within 4 seconds ⇒ 5 seconds of being seen
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Youmuu's Ghostblade
					Grants even more movement speed. Lethality up, attack damage down.
					
						Doubling down on Ghostblade’s identity as the mobility-oriented Dirk upgrade, now that it’s the only one that grants movement speed. It already offers every damage stat a physical assassin wants (attack damage, lethality, and cooldown reduction) so we didn’t need to do much else here.
					
					
						TOTAL COST 2900 gold (unchanged)
					
					
						OUT OF COMBAT MOVEMENT SPEED 20 ⇒ 40
					
					
						LETHALITY 15 ⇒ 18
					
					
						ATTACK DAMAGE 60 ⇒ 55
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Edge of Night
					Grants health instead of magic resist. Lethality up.
					
						Edge of Night faces steep competition with Maw of Malmortius and Mercurial Scimitar in the “magic resist items for squishy champs” space - a competition it tends to lose. We’re switching the MR to health so assassins can buy Edge and Maw or Scimitar, making it viable against all-physical-damage teams in the process. This does come with a downside: the health makes it harder to maximize the Giant Slayer bonus from Lord Dominik’s Regards (especially if The Black Cleaver’s in the mix as well).
					
					
						BUILD PATH Serrated Dirk + Pickaxe + Null-Magic Mantle + 675 gold ⇒ Serrated Dirk + Pickaxe + Ruby Crystal + 725 gold
					
					
						TOTAL COST 3100 gold (unchanged)
					
					
						removedOUT OF COMBAT MOVEMENT SPEED No longer grants 20 out of combat movement speed
					
					
						LETHALITY 15 ⇒ 18
					
				
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 55 (unchanged)
				
				
					newHEALTH Now grants 250 health
				
				
					removedMAGIC RESIST No longer grants 35 magic resist
				
			
		
	Back to top
	Krugs
	
		
			
				Medium sized Krugs can now be Smited!
				
					Medium Krugs do enough damage and have enough health that Smiting them isn’t really a waste of cooldown, so we’re giving you the ability to do so.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Vision Abilities
	
		
			
				
					A number of abilities in League of Legends grant vision, whether through a debuff on the champions it hits or a summoned object that grants vision around itself. Abilities like Hawkshot obviously should give vision, because that’s their job. We’re starting from removing vision from some summoned terrain - like Pillar of Ice - which are primarily used for other purposes (disruption in this case), yet also give vision for some reason. Brushmaker, on the other hand, generally requires an ally to walk into it to be valuable, and so we think the vision granted makes sense; it’s just castable at too high a range. Overall, we’ll looking at vision-granting abilities in future patches in order to create more consistency around the “uh-oh, they can see me!” experience.
				
				Trundle’s E - Pillar of Ice no longer gives vision around the cast area
					Ivern’s W - Brushmaker cast range changed to 1600 ⇒ 800
					Anivia’s W - Crystallize no longer gives vision around the cast area
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Attack & Ability Queueing
	
		
			
				
					Many abilities are meant to get champions within striking range of their foes. In these situations, we often add an attack command at the end of the ability so champions aren’t standing around awkwardly after closing in on an enemy. Based on how input queueing works in League, however, this attack command overwrites any attempt to queue a second ability during the original ability’s cast time. We’re modifying a bunch of abilities so the hidden attack command no longer overwrites spell queueing attempts, but will still work if a second ability isn’t cast. Let us know if you think we’ve left something off the list!
				
				
					THIS IS A BIT CONFUSING Changed several interactions where abilities overwrote any spell queuing commands, instead forcing the caster to immediately begin basic-attacking once the ability completed.
				
				
					SO HERE’S AN EXAMPLE If Pantheon tried to queue E - Heartseeker Strike during W - Aegis of Zeonia’s dash, he’d begin basic-attacking the target once Aegis of Zeonia completed instead of casting Heartseeker Strike.
				
				
					BUT WHAT ABOUT MY… This change only affects the following abilities:
				
				Affected abilities
				Aatrox’s Q - Dark Descent
					Amumu’s Q - Bandage Toss
					Darius’s E - Apprehend
					Ekko’s E - Phase Dive and R - Chronobreak
					Elise’s Spider Q - Venomous Bite
					Evelynn’s E - Ravage
					Irelia’s Q - Bladesurge
					Kha’Zix’s Q - Taste Their Fear
					Kindred’s E - Mounting Dread
					Lee Sin’s Q - Resonating Strike
					Maokai’s W - Twisted Advance
					Pantheon’s W - Aegis of Zeonia
					Poppy’s E - Heroic Charge
					Rek’Sai’s R - Void Rush
					Talon’s Q - Noxian Diplomacy
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Ranked Flex
	
		
			
				
					It sucks to be working your way up the Ranked Flex ladder with a group of friends, and then suddenly have your group become invalidated because someone happened to advance into the next tier before the rest of the group. This was happening a lot for groups around Diamond, where restrictions really started tightening, so we’re relaxing the high-MMR restrictions originally placed on Flex parties.
				
				
					RELAXED RESTRICTIONS Ranked Flex party restrictions are the same as Solo Queue (Diamond, Master, and Challenger parties have tighter restrictions) ⇒ identical for all Tiers. All Ranked Flex parties can now include players within one Tier, including Diamond, Master, and Challenger parties.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Rotating Game Mode
	
		
			
				
				
					Dark Star: Singularity runs from 7/14/17 12:00 PT to 7/18/17 04:00 PT and 7/21/17 11:00 PT to 7/25/17 04:00 PT. Play as Dark Star Thresh in a 3v3 match on the Cosmic Ruins, which features a Dark Star Thresh announcer and chilling music.
				
				Hook or Flay opposing players and Abyss Scuttlers into the black hole in the center of the map to gain points.
					You’ll fly further the more damage you’ve taken, but you can’t die from health loss.
					The first team to 100 points wins the round, and the first team to win two rounds wins the game.
				
					The Singularity calls. Will you answer?
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	2016 SKT T1 Skin Updates
	
		
			
				
					The 2016 SKT T1 skins have each received custom audio effects! In addition, water effects have been added to SKT T1 Nami’s loading screen art.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Bugfixes
	
		
			
				Fixed a bug causing the first raven of Swain’s R - Ravenous Flock to visually spawn from the blue side fountain
					Phantom Dancer no longer prevents some champion abilities (primarily stealth effects) from ignoring unit collision when no enemy champions are nearby - the condition for Phantom Dancer’s own immunity to unit collision
					Rek’Sai now properly marks targets for R - Void Rush even when the damage is completely blocked by a shield
					Blast Cones no longer fizzle when triggered by a burrowed Rek’Sai at maximum attack range
					Fixed a bug causing Ashe’s Passive - Frost Shot bonus damage to apply to inhibitors
					Fixed a bug where several forms of loss-of-control effects (Fear, Flee, Taunt, Knockback, and Charm) weren’t properly cancelling Anivia’s R - Glacial Storm
					When Zilean tries to walk into range to activate Passive - Time in a Bottle on an out-of-range ally, he’ll no longer cast his most recently-used ability instead once he gets into range. Something something time joke.
					Zilean’s E - Time Warp cast range indicator has been reduced to match the actual range
					Lucian’s Q - Piercing Light cast range indicator has been reduced to match the actual range
					The second hit of Sejuani’s W - Winter’s Wrath no longer counts as a separate spellcast
					Raptor’s Cloak is now purchasable on Howling Abyss. Not technically a bug, but felt like one since Banner of Command builds out of it.
					Twitch no longer gets stuck as visually translucent if Guardian Angel triggers during Q - Ambush’s camouflage duration
					Practice Tool’s “Lock XP” button now properly displays the ‘toggled’ state while active
					Fixed a bug causing the profile page to sometimes display a lower ranking than your highest one
					Fixed a bug where LeaverBuster and surveys would fail to show after Honor votes
					Players on low-spec mode now see the celebration for earning 3+ Honor votes
					Fixed a bug where Honor 1.0 buttons would still display at the end of game screen
					Fixed a visual bug where a blue bar would appear in the transition between the Honor vote and the end of game screen
					Reinder Kog'Maw's vintage loading screen border now properly displays for original owners of the skin
					SKT T1 Nami's hair no longer twitches at the start of one of her idle animations
					SKT T1 Ekko's W - Parallel Convergence no longer uses base VFX when Ekko's shield absorbs damage or when its bonus damage against low health targets procs
					SKT T1 Olaf's Q - Undertow on-hit particles no longer become a massive disco if Undertow hits a moving target
					Re-added Freljord Taliyah's voiceover for W - Seismic Shove
					Restored custom audio effects for Heartseeker Orianna's basic abilities
					Mecha Zero Sion's custom VO now plays on kills
					Snow Day Ziggs's joke audio no longer restarts toward the end of the animation
					The Star Guardian beginning-of-game music no longer overlaps with DJ Sona's music at the start of a match
					Candy King Ivern no longer steals Jhin's taunt sound effects during his taunt animation
					Snow Day Syndra's Q - Dark Sphere ground snowflake VFX now properly displays on Medium or lower settings
					Gothic Orianna's model textures no longer change slightly depending on whether she's currently holding The Ball or not
					The Mechs vs. Minions ward skin no longer has a confusingly bright shadow in champion select's ward skin selector
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Upcoming Skins & Chromas
	
		
			
				The following chromas will be released in patch 7.14:
				
				    
				        
				        Pool Party Fiora
				    
				    
				        
				        Pool Party Graves
				    
				    
				        
				        Pool Party Lulu
				        
				
			
		
	
	Back to top"
"3" "
	


    Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
  

	
		Aloha, friends.
		Welcome to patch 7.13, the one where Honor makes a comeback! At the end of every game you’ll be able to honor one of your teammates with one of the new categories. GG? GG! <3
		We also have the regular balance changes; toning down Galio a bit, giving Gnar some love, reining in a certain electric rat, and sharpening the edges on both Kindred and Rek’Sai.
		Closing it up, did you know we have new tips for the loading screen? We've also got a way to track your vision score during the game, and the SKT T1 skins are here!
		See you on the Rift,
	
	
		 Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Phillip \"Costy\" Costigan  Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
	
	
	Back to top


		Mid-Patch Updates
	

	
		
			
				7/7/2017
			
			
			
				Aurelion Sol
			
			
				BUGFIX Aurelion Sol's stars are no longer visually misaligned with their actual area of effect while W - Celestial Expansion is active
			

		
	



	
		
			
				6/30/2017 Balance Update
			
			
			
				Nunu
			
			
				For someone who spends so much time counterjungling, it's frustratingly difficult to punish Nunu for crossing enemy lines. (He's also, to be clear, too strong in general.) Even when enemies catch the Yeti in the act, Nunu's usually sitting on enough health to survive the counterattack as he skates away to freedom. Given how much Consume contributes to the health of Nunu's clears, he doesn't need so much safety baked into his base stats.
			
			
				BASE HEALTH REGEN 7 per 5 seconds ⇒ 5 per 5 seconds
			
			
				ARMOR 26.38 ⇒ 23
			


				Zac
			
			
				Zac's a champion meant to have extreme high moments if he can navigate the unreliability of his abilities. Right now, Stretching Strikes' second hit is giving Zac so much extra reach that those \"inconsistent\" high moments are less the exception and more the norm. We're tuning that range down so Zac's impact isn't so guaranteed.
			
			
				STRETCHING STRIKES 2ND HIT RANGE 300 ⇒ 200
			

		
	



	
		
			
				6/28/2017
			
			
			
				Gnar
			
			
				BUGFIX When Mini Gnar E - Hops off another unit, he can no longer change the direction of his jump by casting Q - Boomerang Toss
			
			
				Rakan
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug where, if Rakan was interrupted during W - Grand Entrance's dash, he became unable to use Flash until re-casting Grand Entrance
			

		
	


	
		Honor Update
	
		
			
				
					Honor has been given a complete overhaul. You’ll see a new voting screen, the addition of a persistent Honor level, and rewards for consistently honorable play. Honor will be activated at some point during the patch. Read the full primer here.
				
				newVoting screen
				
					VOTING SCREEN After each game, honor one teammate
				
				
					HONOR CATEGORIES Friendly, Helpful, Teamwork, Honorable Opponent ⇒ Great shotcalling, Stayed cool, GG <3
				
				Post-game screen
				
					newPOST-GAME CEREMONY If the majority of your team honors you, you get a shoutout for the whole lobby.
				
				
					newHONOR LEVELS Everyone starts at Honor level 2, and consistent honorable play unlocks an evolving Honor level, displayed on the profile page. You will move up even if you are not honored, providing you’re always playing to win.
				
				
					newBOOSTED If a full team all participates in the Honor vote, everyone on that team will receive a small boost to their Honor level progress
				
				Loading screen
				
					updatedFLAIR At Honor level 3 and above, receiving honor in the post-game screen unlocks a loading screen flair for your next game. Your loading screen flair design levels up as you do.
				
				Rewards
				
					updatedKEY FRAGMENTS Key fragments will drop exclusively through Honor. As long as you’re at least level 2 (the starting level) you’ll continue to receive the same amount as now. and these will drop outside of the post-game screen, or on login.
				
				
					newHONOR CAPSULES After level 3, you’ll receive Honor Capsules as well as key fragments. These don’t require a key to open, and contain at least two key fragments. Some also contain champ shards and exclusive rewards like Medieval Twitch and Grey Warwick skin permanents.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Champions
	
		
			
				
				Galio
				Armor reduced. Q tornado zone base damage reduced, ratio increased.
				
					Galio’s throwing his weight around a bit too well, so we’ve got a few changes to help opponents go toe to toe with the big guy in lane. First, we’re reining in his ability to instaclear waves without speccing into damage. Second, we’re making him more vulnerable to physical damage, given his niche is the anti-magic tank. Finally, we’re giving opponents a larger window to knock Galio down when he tries to Hero’s Entrance Exit a hostile gank.
				
				Base stats
				
					BASE ARMOR 27 ⇒ 24
				
				Q - Winds of War
				
					TORNADO ZONE DAMAGE 45/60/75/90/105 (+0.45 ability power) over 1.5 seconds ⇒ 30/40/50/60/70 (+0.6 ability power) over 1.5 seconds
				
				R - Hero's Entrance
				
					CHANNEL TIME Galio channels for 1 second ⇒ 1.25 seconds before jumping into the air (hover time before dashing reduced by 0.25 seconds; total time to reach target unchanged)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Gnar
				Mini Q damage increased. Mega E jump range increased.
				
					Gnar’s having trouble getting the job done, both as a lane bully in Mini form and a teamfight initiator in Mega form. In Mini Gnar’s case, Boomerang Throw could pack a harder punch as his primary means of whittling skittish enemies down and out of lane. Mega Gnar by contrast already has the raw power necessary to wreak havoc on his foes, but needs help getting into range to use those tools. These changes together help Gnar regardless of which hat he’s currently wearing.
				
				Q - Boomerang Throw
				
					BASE DAMAGE 5/35/65/95/125 ⇒ 5/45/85/125/165
				
				Mega E - Crunch
				
					RANGE 475 ⇒ 600
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Kennen
				W-empowered attack bonus is now base plus AP and bonus AD ratios. Hurricane no longer stacks W. E ratio increased.
				
					As a basic-attack-focused mage, Kennen has access to both physical- and magic-damage focused builds. Choosing between them affects the strengths Kennen brings to the table: the physical build gives him more consistent, unrelenting damage, while the magic build makes him a burstier threat to deal with. In theory. The balance between these builds is off-kilter: AD Kennen's sustained damage is actually pretty bursty, and AP Kennen isn't bursting hard enough. We're giving AP Kennen better scaling, but our work on AD Kennen's a bit more nuanced.
					Primarily, we're removing Electrical Surge as a repeatable damage spike in the physical build. Surge’s AD scaling is down, and in the (usual) case where Kennen picks up Runaan's Hurricane, it no longer triples Electrical Surge's stack rate. The nuance is in the ratio switch from total AD to bonus, a change meant to mitigate the impact to bot lane Kennen, who we’d like to keep viable as a niche strategic option. Switching to bonus AD removes the innate disadvantage bot lane Kennen faces with total AD scaling (bot laners are generally lower-level than solo laners, so their base AD hasn’t scaled as much) while letting us make a smaller ratio reduction than if we had stuck with total AD.
				
				W - Electrical Surge
				
					EMPOWERED ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE 0.4/0.5/0.6/0.7/0.8 total attack damage ⇒ 15/20/25/30/35 (+0.6 bonus attack damage) (+0.3 ability power)
				
				
					removedSHURRICANE Electrical Surge now stacks when Kennen fires a basic attack, instead of on-hit. (Runaan’s Hurricane no longer grants extra stacks.)
				
				E - Lightning Rush
				
					RATIO 0.6 ability power ⇒ 0.8 ability power
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Kha'Zix
				Q damage decreased but Isolation bonus increased. R stealth duration increased.
				
					While getting each of Kha’Zix’s ability evolutions to at least niche appeal has been a juggling act as long as he’s existed in the game, Evolved Active Cloaking is currently in a pretty unpickable state. To remedy this, we’re making it easier for KZ to chain-stealth through multiple brush patches with R’s evolution, closing greater distances unseen. To make space for the buff, we’re reducing Q’s damage outside of Isolated situations (where it’s actually stronger! Something something strategic identity.)
				
				Q - Taste Their Fear
				
					BASE DAMAGE 70/95/120/145/170 ⇒ 60/85/110/135/160
				
				
					RATIO 1.2 bonus attack damage ⇒ 1.1 bonus attack damage
				
				
					ISOLATION BONUS +50% damage ⇒ +65% damage
				
				R - Void Assault
				
					INVISIBILITY DURATION 1.25 seconds ⇒ 1.5 seconds
				
				
					EVOLVED INVISIBILITY DURATION Upon entering brush while out of combat, Kha’Zix becomes invisible for 2.5 seconds ⇒ 3 seconds
				
				
					EVOLVED INVISIBILITY LINGER Up to 1.25 seconds ⇒ 1.5 seconds after exiting brush
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Kindred
				Passive increases range more often, W and E damage up.
				
					Since their update, we’ve had more time to assess Kindred's power and there was potential to give them a little bit more power throughout their kit. First we have the marks - as the game progresses, it gets harder to acquire marks, which makes it even harder for Kindred to access their bonus range, so we're easing the curve on the passive a bit. Additionally, early trades were still a bit on the weak side and Wolf attacks during Wolf's Frenzy didn't feel meaningfully more powerful with each successful hunt.
				
				Passive - Mark of the Kindred
				
					RANGE PER MARKS Kindred’s basic attacks and Mounting Dread gain 75 range at 4 stacks, plus 25 range every 4 stacks ⇒ every 3 stacks thereafter
				
				W - Wolf's Frenzy
				
					ADDITIONAL DAMAGE PER MARK 0.5% enemy current health ⇒ 1% enemy current health
				
				E - Mounting Dread
				
					BASE DAMAGE 40/60/80/100/120 ⇒ 60/80/100/120/140
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Maokai
				Base health increased, R range increased, cooldown per level reduced.
				
					Maokai is on the doorstep of finding his home on the Rift, so we’re giving him the keys to unlock what the Twisted Treant is supposed to be doing more often and more successfully.
				
				Base stats
				
					BASE HEALTH 540 ⇒ 565
				
				R - Nature's Grasp
				
					RANGE 2500 ⇒ 3000
				
				
					COOLDOWN 120/110/100 seconds ⇒ 120/100/80 seconds
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Poppy
				Q health ratio up.
				
					Midseason left some tanks with less damage than they need to function. A little bump to Poppy’s bread and butter skill should go a long way toward bringing her back.
				
				Q - Hammer Shock
				
					RATIO 7% target’s maximum health ⇒ 8% target’s maximum health
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Rek'Sai
				Void Rush AD ratio increased. W unburrow speed standardized.
				
					After a couple of patches, we’re pretty comfortable with where Rek’Sai sits right now. We think there’s still slightly more room for Void Rush to scale, and we’re also making Rek’Sai’s gameplay more fluid and consistent.
				
				Q - Queen's Wrath
				
					SO FRESH SO QUEEN Spells queued while attacking are handled better
				
				Burrowed W - Un-burrow
				
					UNBURROW SPEED Now takes the same time to unburrow whether you press W or attack a target (0.15 seconds)
				
				
					BUGFIX Knockback effect for secondary targets no longer lasts slightly longer than intended
				
				R - Void Rush
				
					RATIO 1.6 bonus attack damage ⇒ 1.85 bonus attack damage
				
				
					HUD PING Void Rush can now properly be HUD-pinged to display its cooldown or readiness, regardless of whether a marked target is in range
				
				
					GREEN CIRCLE Void Rush’s cooldown availability now displays accurately for allies in the HUD
				
				
					SPECTATOR NOISE Prey marks no longer show up for spectators
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Shaco
				E base damage down. E scaling up at later levels. E damage now physical instead of magical. E Execute paradigm altered.
				
					Shaco isn’t getting to live out his assassin fantasy, instead playing as a “sort of tanky fighter with some dashes and a slow that allows him to stick to one target and stat check them to death”. We want him to feel more rewarded for building damage and stabbing people.
				
				E - Two-Shiv Poison
				
					BASE DAMAGE 5/35/65/95/125 ⇒ 50/75/100/125/150
				
				
					RATIO 0.75 total attack damage ⇒ 0.6/0.75/0.9/1.05/1.2 bonus attack damage
				
				
					DAMAGE TYPE Magic ⇒ Physical
				
				
					newFINISH HIM Now deals up to 50% additional damage based on target's missing health
				
				
					removedFINISH HIM No longer deals 3 ~ 8% missing health damage based on character level
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Trundle
				Q can damage turrets. W healing and regeneration amp increased and applies more quickly.
				
					For a champion who excels at split-pushing and dueling his laner, Trundle’s Chomp not applying to turrets is just unintuitive. We’re adding that interaction back in, and taking the time to clean up the way Chomp works.
				
				Q - Chomp
				
					new?JAWS OF STEEL Trundle can once again Chomp turrets
				
				
					newORTHODONTIC SURGERY The attack following Chomp now has more consistent timing and scales better with attack speed.
				
				W - Frozen Domain
				
					INCREASED HEALING AND REGENERATION 20% ⇒ 25%
				
				
					BUGFIX Was already giving 25% increased lifesteal. We’re “fixing” the bug by bringing other sources of healing/regen up to the same level.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Xayah
				Q attack lockout now scales down with attack speed.
				
					After last patch’s changes, we figured we could make Xayah feel a little bit smoother to play as the game progresses.
				
				Q - Double Daggers
				
					FEAST Attack lockout now scales down with attack speed.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Rammus
				
					Ok.
				
				General
				
					YEAH Rammus’s dance moves are so sick they scale with movespeed
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Audio Updates
				
					You’re not hearing things! ...well, technically you are, but…. Yeah! Audio updates!
				
				
					ALISTAR Alistar’s basic attack and ability audio has been updated for all skins without skin-specific audio effects!
				
				
					CHO’GATH Cho’Gath’s basic attack and ability audio has been updated for all skins without skin-specific audio effects!
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Items
	
		
			
				
				Abyssal Mask
				Now builds from Catalyst of Aeons instead of Spectre Cowl.
				
					(We’re leading in with a bunch of words about stuff that’s not Abyssal Mask, but trust us, we’re going somewhere with it.)
					Doran’s Ring stacking had created an unhealthy pattern in lane; waveclear from a distance, get all of your mana back, repeat. However, its removal leaves some tanks feeling like they don’t have items that support their laning patterns at all. Catalyst of Aeons is a solid paradigm for in-lane sustain, but tanks don’t feel great about the items it builds into, especially now that Righteous Glory no longer builds out of it.
					So that’s one side of things. On the other hand, Abyssal Mask had been underperforming, and we were looking for ways to make it a more palatable item. And that leads us to our changes. Abyssal Mask’s passive is a natural fit for tanks. Tanks need an item that builds out of Catalyst of the Aeons, and we just put the two ideas together to make the new Abyssal Mask.
				
				
					BUILD PATH Spectre's Cowl + Negatron Cloak + 880 gold (2800 total gold) ⇒ Catalyst of Aeons + Negatron Cloak + 1080 gold (2900 total gold)
				
				
					[REMOVED] HEALTH REGEN No longer gives +100% base health regen
				
				
					HEALTH 300 ⇒ 350
				
				
					newMANA 300
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 65 ⇒ 55
				
				
					newUNIQUE PASSIVE - ETERNITY 15% of damage taken from champions is gained as mana. Spending mana restores 20% of the cost as health, up to 25 per spell cast.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Adaptive Helm
				Health increased.
				
					Adaptive Helm isn’t quite providing the raw oomph it need to be a competitive defensive item, so we’re buffing the tankiness it provides just a bit.
				
				
					HEALTH 300 ⇒ 350
				
			
		
	
	
        
            
                
                Ancient Coin
                Coin rewards increased.
                
                    The Coin line is underperforming to a pretty significant degree. Hence, buffs.
                
                
                    GOLD COIN REWARD 20 gold ⇒ 25 gold
                
                
                    MANA COIN REWARD 8% missing mana ⇒ 15% missing mana
                

                Nomad's Medallion, Talisman of Ascension & Eye of the Oasis
                
                    GOLD COIN REWARD 30 gold ⇒ 40 gold
                
                
                    MANA COIN REWARD 8% missing mana ⇒ 15% missing mana
                
            
        
    
	
		
			
				
				Zeke's Convergence
				
					ICON-VERGENCE Icon updated to match last patch’s gameplay update!
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Jungle Items
	
		
			
				
					Cinderhulk is lagging behind the other jungle items at the moment, so we made some changes to jungle upgrades and Bami Cinder to help smooth out clearspeed - especially early on - for tank junglers.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Jungle Item Mana Regeneration
				
					Unlike fighters, tanks don’t clear very well when they rely on just their auto-attacks. Moreover, their lower damage means many camps simply take longer for them to clear than damage-building junglers. We want to smooth out that difference a little bit, so we’re giving junglers more mana to work with.
				
				Tracker’s Knife, Stalker’s Blade & Skirmisher’s Sabre
				
					BASE MANA REGEN IN JUNGLE +180% ⇒ +225%
				
				Enchantment: Runic Echoes
				
					With more mana on all junglers, the mage enchantment doesn’t need to provide quite so much mana on its own.
				
				
					MANA RESTORE ON PROC 18% missing mana ⇒ 15% missing mana
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Bami's Cinder
				Cost decreased. Health decreased. Monster damage increased.
				
					Tanks don’t have a very smooth item progression in the jungle. If they have a good first gank and a solid clear, they sometimes back with enough gold to pick up Bami’s Cinder. But most of the time, they’re stuck sitting on a Ruby Crystal while other junglers get to keep picking up small components (aka Long Swords for days).
					Worse, health doesn’t do anything for clear speed, so while tanks are trying to farm Cinderhulk, everybody else around them is already farming more quickly - thanks to those aforementioned small components. On top of that, Bami’s Cinder’s monster damage isn’t very powerful, which only amplifies the problem.
				
				
					HEALTH 280 ⇒ 200
				
				
					BUILD PATH Ruby Crystal + 700 gold (1100 total gold) ⇒ Ruby Crystal + 500 gold (900 total gold)
				
				
					BONUS DAMAGE TO NON-CHAMPIONS 50% ⇒ 100%
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Enchantment: Cinderhulk
				Total cost down. Health down. Bonus Health scaling up. Breakeven point is 1500 bonus health.
				
					HEALTH 400 ⇒ 325
				
				
					BUILD PATH Jungle Item + Bami’s Cinder + 525 gold (2625 total gold) ⇒ Jungle Item + Bami’s Cinder + 525 gold (2425 total gold)
				
				
					BONUS HEALTH MULTIPLIER +15% ⇒ +20%
				
				
					BASE MANA REGEN IN JUNGLE +180% ⇒ +225%
				(copied from above)
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Sunfire Cape
				
					Build path adjustment for Bami’s Cinder cost changes above.
				
				
					BUILD PATH Bami’s Cinder + Chain Vest + 1000 gold (2900 total gold) ⇒ Bami’s Cinder + Ruby Crystal + Chain Vest + 800 gold (2900g total gold)
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Rift Herald
	
		
			
				
					Herald should be immediately more rewarding to the individual who kills her.
				
				
					REWARD 25 gold ⇒ 100 gold
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Rotating Game Mode
	
		
			
				
					Legend of the Poro King returns from 6/30/17 12:00 PT - 7/04/17 04:00 PT and 7/07/17 12:00 PT - 7/11/17 04:00 PT. Pelt your enemies in a grand snowball fight on the Howling Abyss to summon the resplendent Poro King.
				
				TL;DR:
				Use Poro Toss to bowl your friendly poro across the map. If it hits a target, activate Poro Dash to dart toward your opponent.
					Once a team lands 10 Poro Tosses against enemy champions, the Poro King is summoned. Any ally can join His Royal Highness’s side by activating To The King!
					Until defeated, the Poro King heals you, boosts your mana regeneration, and helps siege enemy towers with his majestic poro-splosions.
					Thank the Poro King for his assistance (and boost his power) by feeding him Poro Snax.
				May you always bowl straight and true, and may you be fast-footed to avoid those fluffballs.
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Loading Screen Tips
	
		
			
				
					THE TECHNOLOGY IS HERE Different tips will be displayed to different people based on their level. We added more than 120 tips! Try to catch’em all.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Vision Score
	
		
			
				
					Vision score is now displayed on your trinket tooltip.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Bugfixes
	
		
			
				Taliyah's W - Seismic Shove is no longer missing VO lines
					Phoenix Quinn no longer uses base sound for R - Skystrike
					Using Xayah’s R - Featherstorm and hitting an enemy champion at the same time a turret kills a minion would cause the turret not to aggro Champions until it's next minion target is dead
					Fixed a bug where Ryze’s Q - Overload ability icon would still be highlighted despite being on cooldown after W - Rune Prison and E - Spell Flux cast is canceled due to target’s untargetability
					Fixed a bug where hitting Varus’ R - Chain of Corruption at its max range wouldn’t make it spread through enemies
					Jinx's laugh no longer cuts off at the end when she gasps for air
					Rengar no longer has some attack/kill lines that are global for all players
					Gangplank's R - Cannon Barrage (and all GP skins) audio no longer desyncs when the camera is panned away and then returns
					Fixed several interactions with skins and recall sounds desyncing or not playing correctly
					Fixed a several skin sound effects and voice over lines not playing at the right time
					Elementalist Lux can now click the same element in both transform phases
					Fixed Dawnbringer Riven and Nightbringer Yasuo’s special borders being cut off at the bottom during loading screen
					Multi-channel audio encoding issue fixed in Highlights playback
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Skins in Champ Select
	
		
			
				
					We’re adding the functionality to buy skins in champion select again, starting in patch 7.13!
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	
	Upcoming Skins
	
		
			
				The following skins will be released during patch 7.13:
				
				
					
						
						SKT T1 Olaf
						SKT T1 Syndra
						SKT T1 Nami
						SKT T1 Ekko
						SKT T1 Zac
						SKT T1 Jhin
						Coach Kkoma ward skin
					
				
				
				
					Ascend to Challenger with the new SKT T1 skins! ...Well, at least try to.
				
			
		
	
"
"4" "
  


    Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
  


  Howdy, friends.7.12’s the first patch in a bit that hasn’t come with a new or updated champion, but that doesn’t mean it’s one to sleep on. Required reading for your 7.12 matches: check out the support item sweep.
    We’re looking to create better item build diversity between tankier supports and their Enchanter compatriots, and changes run the gamut from cost adjustments up to a full-on rework to Zeke’s Harbinger (now Zeke’s Convergence). Past that, we have a
    healthy assortment of balance work, both to those recent projects we mentioned earlier as well as a few faces we haven’t seen for a bit. We’ve also got some wins outside the game! This is the first patch that’ll be played fully on the
    10-ban system, and we’re excited to keep watching how the ban meta shapes up. The Crowd Control Score promised in midseason is here as well! Lastly, we’ve got a swaggy pair of legendary skins for Riven and Yasuo - solo lanes have never looked so fly.That’s it for this set of notes! Go get ‘em, champs.
   
  
     Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Phillip \"Costy\" Costigan     Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
  
  
    Back to top
  
  Mid-Patch Updates
  
    
      6/15/2017

      Shaco
      BUGFIX
        Fixed a bug where Shaco’s Jack in the Boxes were visible to all enemy players through Fog of War.
      
    
  


  Champions
    
      
        
        Camille
        Passive cooldown reduced. Q2 damage increased.
        It’s been awhile since our work to cut excessive strengths out of Camille’s kit and give her real weaknesses. Now that the Steel Shadow’s in a better place from an ability fairness/frustration standpoint, we’re in a good position to power her
          up a bit. Reducing Adaptive Defenses' early cooldown gives Camille more opportunity to play aggressively in lane, while restoring the damage we previously chopped off Precision Protocol keeps her razor-sharp throughout the game.
        
          Passive - Adaptive Defenses
        COOLDOWN
          20/15/10 seconds
           ⇒ 
          16/13/10 seconds
        
        
          Q - Precision Protocol
        DELAYED SECOND HIT DAMAGE
          180%
           ⇒ 
          200%
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Corki
        Attack speed slightly up. Base AD slightly up. Autos do more magic damage rather than physical.
        Last time we saw the Corkster bombing through the Rift he'd been doing so as a midlaner, packing obscene poke damage and wave-clear, a potent arsenal desirable for that role. We made some changes to curb that, but they left him feeling like a
          whiskey delta. We see an opportunity to help him out: we like him as a magic-damage option for the bottom lane marksman role. These changes are designed to reinforce that by making him a more palatable pick in bot lane, while further pushing
          his magic-damage niche.
         
        Base stats
        BASE ATTACK SPEED
          0.625
           ⇒ 
          0.638
        
        BASE ATTACK DAMAGE
          56
           ⇒ 
          58
        
        
          Passive - Hextech Munitions
        BASIC ATTACK DAMAGE
          50% physical, 50% magic
           ⇒ 
          20% physical, 80% magic
        
        
          W - Valkyrie
        newPREPARATION
          Phosphorous Bomb and Missile Barrage can now be buffered during Valkyrie's travel time
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Ivern
        E damage decreased.
        Ivern is already pretty strong, and with the incoming changes to Athene’s Unholy Grail (see below), we only foresee him getting stronger. As a result, we're pre-emptively taking some power out of Triggerseed’s damage.
        
          E - Triggerseed
        DAMAGE
          60/90/120/150/180
           ⇒ 
          50/70/90/110/130
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Jax
        W now grants bonus range.
        Using Empowered Strike to reset his basic attack timer is Jax’s bread-and-butter, so we’re adding a little extra range to help that combat pattern feel a bit more fluid.
        
          W - Empowered Strike
        newBONUS RANGE
          If Jax uses Empowered Strike to empower a basic attack, it gains 50 extra range
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Jhin
        Q base damage down but scaling up. R base damage up.
         
        Back when landing one shot of Jhin's ultimate pretty much guaranteed hitting the rest, his high base damage was downright excessive. Now that his ultimate is less reliable, we have room to add damage back into his rotation.
        
          Q - Dancing Grenade
        BASE DAMAGE
          50/75/100/125/150
           ⇒ 
          45/70/95/120/145
        
        RATIO
          0.3/0.35/0.4/0.45/0.5 total attack damage
           ⇒ 
          0.4/0.45/0.5/0.55/0.6 total attack damage
        
        
          R - Curtain Call
        BASE DAMAGE PER SHOT
          40/100/160
           ⇒ 
          50/115/180
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Karma
        E shield decreased. Mantra’d E shield on secondary targets decreased.
        Karma is already pretty strong, and with the incoming changes to Athene’s Unholy Grail (see below), we only foresee her getting stronger. As a result, we’re pre-emptively taking some power out of Inspire’s ability to nullify so much damage.
        
          E - Inspire
        SHIELD
          70/100/130/160/190
           ⇒ 
          70/95/120/145/170
        
        
          Mantra'd E - Defiance
        SHIELD ON SECONDARY TARGETS
          50% primary target’s shield
           ⇒ 
          30% primary target’s shield
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Kindred
        Base attack damage up. E mana cost down.
        Last patch we made some major changes to Kindred, aimed at better delivering on the jungle marksman fantasy. While there’s always a period of adjustment when a champion sees large changes to their base kit, Kindred came out struggling more than
          expected. These changes are just straight power increases across the board, and as players get less sheepish about new builds and playstyle, we should see Kindred’s eternal hunt become far more fruitful.
         
        Base stats
        BASE ATTACK DAMAGE
          54
           ⇒ 
          57
        
        
          W - Wolf's Frenzy
        WOLF DASH SPEED
          1200
           ⇒ 
          1400
        
        GRACE PERIOD
          Zone duration now waits to begin counting down until Wolf reaches the cast location. Casting Dance of Arrows during Wolf’s travel time will still grant the reduced cooldown.
        
        
          E - Mounting Dread
        COST
          70 mana
           ⇒ 
          50 mana
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Malzahar
        Q and R damage reduced at later ranks.
        Now that Malzahar’s back in mid and speccing into damage-oriented builds, we’re tailoring his late-game damage appropriately.
        
          Q - Call of the Void
        DAMAGE
          70/110/150/190/230
           ⇒ 
          70/105/140/175/210
        
        
          R - Nether Grasp
        BEAM DAMAGE
          125/250/375
           ⇒ 
          125/225/325
        
        BEAM RATIO
          1.15 ability power
           ⇒ 
          1.10 ability power
        
        BUGFIX
          Quicksilver Sash and Mercurial Scimitar now properly purge only the suppression portion of Nether Grasp. Beam damage will continue to tick as long as Malzahar’s target stays in range (1250 distance).
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
         
        Rakan
        Passive shield now properly interacts with shield amplifying effects.
        Turns out Rakan’s passive hasn’t been scaling with shield-amplifying effects, which the Charmer (as an Enchanter) tends to have a bunch of. Sorry, bird boy.
        
          Passive - Fey Feathers
        BUFF-FIX
          Now properly benefits from effects that modify heal and shield values (ex. Forbidden Idol line, Windspeaker’s Blessing)
        
         
        Minor bugfixes
        QUICK CLARITY
          R - The Quickness’s cooldown availability now displays accurately for allies in the HUD
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Rek'Sai
        Base AD up. Armor per level up. W unburrow damage up. R more reliably hits targets.
         
        Rek'Sai’s ability update has left her a bit on the weak side overall. We’re looking to push some base reliability back into her kit, so we’re upping the acquisition range on Void Rush and feeding her some base stats.
         
        Base stats
        BASE ATTACK DAMAGE
          55.628
           ⇒ 
          57.5
        
        ARMOR GROWTH STAT
          3.4
           ⇒ 
          3.75
        
        
          Burrowed W - Un-burrow
        RATIO
          0.4 bonus attack damage
           ⇒ 
          0.8 bonus attack damage
        
        
          R - Void Rush
        TARGET ACQUISITION
          Void Rush is now much harder to dodge. Rek’Sai’s target should no longer be able to walk out of damage range without exceptional amounts of movement speed (or a dash/flash).
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Rumble
        Heat drains more slowly. Q cooldown higher early, damage increased, now does decreased damage to minions. W shield amount up, duration down. E slow and damage up.
         
        We want Rumble’s opponents to have a clearer window to pick fights against him during laning phase. Flamespitter’s short cooldown allowed Rumble to be a constant threat against champions while taking no minion damage from trades (fun fact: ability
          damage doesn’t draw minion aggro), and this left no window for opponents to capitalise on him. We’re also making the heat system more intuitive and easier to pick up for new Rumble players.
        
          Passive - Junkyard Titan
        HEAT DECAY START
          3 seconds (4 if Flamespitter was used)
           ⇒ 
          4 seconds
        
        HEAT DECAY RATE
          0.5 seconds
           ⇒ 
          1 second
        
        HEAT DECAY AMOUNT
          5 per tick for 5 ticks, then 10 per tick
           ⇒ 
          10 per tick
        
        
          Q - Flamespitter
        DAMAGE TO MINIONS
          100%
           ⇒ 
          75%
        
        COOLDOWN
          6 seconds at all ranks
           ⇒ 
          10/9/8/7/6 seconds
        
        BASE DAMAGE
          75/135/195/255/315
           ⇒ 
          135/180/225/270/315
        
        RATIO
          1.0 ability power
           ⇒ 
          1.1 ability power
        
        
          W - Scrap Shield
        DURATION
          2 seconds
           ⇒ 
          1.5 seconds
        
        BASE SHIELD
          50/80/110/140/170
           ⇒ 
          80/110/140/170/200
        
        
          E - Electro Harpoon
        BASE DAMAGE
          45/70/95/120/145
           ⇒ 
          60/85/110/135/160
        
        SLOW
          30/40/50/60/66%
           ⇒ 
          30/40/50/60/70%
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
     
        Xayah
        Can’t attack while casting Q, W cooldown increased.
        Xayah’s bringing a little bit too much damage during longer team fights later in the game, so we’re reducing how often she gets access to her steroid. 
        
          Q - Double Daggers
        removed“TRIPLE” DAGGERS?
          Xayah can no longer basic attack while Double Daggers is firing
        
        
          W - Deadly Plumage 
        COOLDOWN
          16/15/14/13/12 seconds
           ⇒ 
          20/19/18/17/16 seconds
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Zac
        W and E damage reduced.
        Zac’s damage is on the high side for a tank, so we’re dialing that back. We’re sure he’ll bounce back from these changes.
        
          W - Unstable Matter
        DAMAGE
          40/55/70/85/100
           ⇒ 
          30/45/60/75/90
        
        
          E - Elastic Slingshot
        DAMAGE
          80/130/180/230/280
           ⇒ 
          60/110/160/210/260
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        Heimerdinger & Zyra Pet Targeting
        Addressing a loophole that allowed Heimerdinger and Zyra to “attack” a target without actually attacking. This let them sidestep some of the intended risks of telling turrets/plants what to attack: standing still long enough to actually fire the
          attack, and drawing minion aggro as a result.
         
        FOLLOW THROUGH
          Heimerdinger and Zyra must now actually fire a basic attack to command turrets or plants to focus a target. Issuing an attack command and immediately cancelling it no longer triggers the redirect.
        
      
    
  
   
  
    Back to top
  
  Support Items
    
      
        At the moment, Locket of the Iron Solari and Redemption are such a dominant pair that most supports feel forced to build those two first. This effectively denies them access to the rest of the item pool in many games, especially given the other
          early investments supports have to make (boots, gold item, sightstone). The overall strength of Locket and Redemption is fine, but other items can’t compete with their uncanny synergy. Locket provides your team the durability to stay in the
          fight, while Redemption rewards your team for doing so.We’re refactoring both items to have a less perfect combo with each other, and ramping up their synergy with other support items. Essentially, Redemption should
          feel like a keystone for enchanters, and Locket for tanks. Nothing stops one set of supports from reaching across the aisle to grab items from the other class, but overall builds should feel more distinct between the classes.
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Locket of the Iron Solari
        Base shield value down. Bonus health ratio added to shield.
        Locket of the Iron Solari lets tanks give a burst of tankiness to their team - perfect alongside their initiation or counter-initiation. However, it’s currently best-in-class on all supports, not just tanks. We’re linking Locket’s
          shield strength to typical tank stats so that if you want its full strength, you have to invest in it.
         
        SHIELD
          70-665 (at levels 1-18)
           ⇒ 
          65-434 (+2-36% of the caster’s bonus health)  (at levels 1-18)
        
        REMINDER
          Locket chooses the higher level between caster and recipient when determining shield scaling - this is unchanged. The new bonus health ratio is always based off the caster’s bonus health.
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Redemption
        Health and health regen down. Mana regen up. Heal decreased but scales better with heal amplifiers.
        Redemption gives enchanters access to a heal - one of their class strengths - that excels in teamfights, but it’s currently best-in-class on all supports, not just enchanters. A spicy heal on healers is cool, but when it’s so
          easily accessible to tanks, the two classes lose some of their uniqueness. We’re linking Redemption’s heal strength to typical enchanter items and masteries so that if you want its full strength, you have to invest in it.
         
        HEALTH
          300
           ⇒ 
          200
        
        HEALTH REGEN
          +75% base health regen
           ⇒ 
          +50% base health regen
        
        MANA REGEN
          +125% base mana regen
           ⇒ 
          +150% base mana regen
        
        HEAL
          65-490 (level 1-18) 
           ⇒ 
          30-370 (level 1-18)
        
        newUBERHEAL
          Redemption’s heal amount is affected three times as much by heal and shield power amplifiers
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        new
        Zeke's Convergence
        Now builds out of Aegis of the Legion instead of Amplifying Tomes. Passive now creates slowing storm when triggered, instead of granting ability power and critical strike chance.
        When we looked at the support item landscape, we saw a lot of opportunity to amplify the Warden landscape by updating Zeke’s Convergence. Wardens excel at protecting a nearby champion, and we wanted to give them itemization that represents that
          fantasy. Knight’s Vow already does a good job at helping them keep their chosen target alive, but we felt there was room for an item which made them more worth the investment to keep them safe. As such, we shifted the stat palette
          of Zeke’s to be more tank appropriate.We also had concerns that the item itself was too complicated to use, leading to a lot of frustrating misfires - despite its very strong high moments when used correctly. We’re making the active
          much more reliable to use so that Zeke’s doesn’t make you feel like you’ve spent 2400 on a gamble.
         
        NAME
          Zeke's Harbinger
           ⇒ 
          Zeke's Convergence
        
        TOTAL COST
          2250 gold
           ⇒ 
          2400 gold
        
        BUILD PATH
          Glacial Shroud + Amplifying Tome + Amplifying Tome + 380 gold
           ⇒ 
          Aegis of the Legion + Glacial Shroud + 400 gold
        
        removedABILITY POWER
          No longer grants 50 ability power
        
        ARMOR
          30
           ⇒ 
          60
        
        newMAGIC RESIST
          30
        
        COOLDOWN REDUCTION
          10% (unchanged)
        
        MANA
          250 (unchanged)
        
         
        Item effects
        newUNIQUE PASSIVE
          Casting your ultimate near your ally surrounds you with a frost storm and ignites your ally’s basic attacks for 10 seconds (45 second cooldown). Enemies inside your frost storm are slowed by 20% and your ally’s attacks burn their target for 50% bonus magic damage over 2 seconds.
        
        newUNIQUE PASSIVE
          Frostfire Covenant: Basic attacking a burning enemy ignites your frost storm to deal 40 magic damage per second and slow by 40% for 3 seconds.
        
        removedCHARGES
          Zeke’s Harbinger Convergence no longer gains charges over time or triggers based on charge count, and no longer grants 20% bonus ability power or 50% critical strike chance when triggered
        
        CONDUIT BINDING RESTRICTION
          60 second cooldown
           ⇒ 
          Can’t be re-bound while Frostfire Covenant is on cooldown, and the binding active can’t be cast on the ally you’re currently bound to, or other allies that are bound by a different Zeke’s Convergence.
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Athene's Unholy Grail
        Now converts mana regen into ability power. Less cooldown reduction.
        Athene’s is in a bit of a weird spot. Its 20% cooldown reduction and regeneration (health and mana) make it feel like a pretty good early item. However, it’s in competition with Locket and Redemption, both of which are unlikely to give up their
          first buy priority. Rather than overbuff Athene’s to make it more competitive early, we rejiggered it into a scaling item, like Rabadon’s Deathcap for enchanters. 
         
        ABILITY POWER
          40
           ⇒ 
          30
        
        MANA REGEN
          +75% base mana regen
           ⇒ 
          +100% base mana regen
        
        COOLDOWN REDUCTION
          20%
           ⇒ 
          10%
        
        BLOOD EARN RATE
          20% of premitigation damage dealt to champions
           ⇒ 
          25% of premitigation damage dealt to champions
        
        newDISSONANCE
          Grants 5 ability power for every +25% base mana regen
        
        removedHARMONY
          No longer grants +25% base health regen for every +25% base mana regen
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Banner of Command
        Point Runner makes sense for a siege themed item.
         
        BUILD PATH
          Aegis of the Legion + Glacial Shroud + 100 gold
           ⇒ 
          Aegis of the Legion + Raptor Cloak + 200 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          2200 gold (unchanged)
        
        newHEALTH REGEN
          +125% base health regen
        
        removedMANA
          No longer grants 400 mana
        
        newUNIQUE PASSIVE
          Point Runner: Builds up to 20% bonus movement speed over 2 seconds while near turrets, fallen turrets, and Void Gates.
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Knight's Vow
        Tanks like cooldown reduction, right?
         
        BUILD PATH
          Crystalline Bracer + Chain Vest + 850 gold
           ⇒ 
          Kindlegem + Chain Vest + 700 gold
        
        newCOOLDOWN REDUCTION
          10%
        
        removedHEALTH REGEN
          No longer grants +100% base health regen
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Righteous Glory
        Now builds out of Glacial Shroud instead of Catalyst of Aeons. Slow nova now cannot be triggered manually, and automatically triggers once near an enemy champion.
        Catalyst of the Aeons - thanks to its eternity passive - is a good item for champions who want long, extended fights where they can make the most of its mana/health restore capabilities. On the other hand, Righteous Glory is for champions who
          want to start a fight now. This mix of explosive and drawn out strengths is making Righteous Glory a bit too strong at everything, so we’re removing the Catalyst from its recipe and replacing it with Glacial Shroud. Separately,
          we’re also adding more counterplay to its active to help make it feel more fair to play against.
         
        RECIPE
          Catalyst of Aeons + Crystalline Bracer + 750 gold
           ⇒ 
          Glacial Shroud + Crystalline Bracer + 950 gold
        
        HEALTH
          500
           ⇒ 
          400
        
        newARMOR
          30
        
        newCOOLDOWN REDUCTION
          10%
        
        removedUNIQUE PASSIVE
          No longer grants Catalyst of Aeon’s Eternity passive
        
        newUNIQUE ACTIVE
          Slow nova now automatically triggers if an enemy champion is within close proximity
        
        removedUNIQUE ACTIVE
          Slow nova can no longer be manually triggered early
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Glacial Shroud
        Price point and armor down
         
        COMBINE COST
          350 gold
           ⇒ 
          250 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          1000 gold
           ⇒ 
          900 gold
        
        ARMOR
          25
           ⇒ 
          20
        
        
          Iceborn Gauntlet
          COMBINE COST
        650 gold
         ⇒ 
        750 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          2700 gold (unchanged)
        
        
          Frozen Heart
          COMBINE COST
        650 gold
         ⇒ 
        750 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          2700 gold (unchanged)
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Raptor Cloak
        Price point and armor down

        BUILD PATH
          Rejuvenation Bead + Chain Vest + 250 gold
           ⇒ 
          Rejuvenation Bead + Cloth Armor + 450 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          1200 gold
           ⇒ 
          900 gold
        
        ARMOR
          40
           ⇒ 
          30
        
        
          Ohmwrecker
          COMBINE COST
        650 gold
         ⇒ 
        950 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          2650 gold (unchanged)
        
        
          Zz'rot Portal
          COMBINE COST
        780 gold
         ⇒ 
        1080 gold
        
        TOTAL COST
          2700 gold (unchanged)
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        Ancient Coin Line
        Just a few usability improvements to the coin drop mechanic.
         
        PENNY PINCHING
          Champions no longer pick up mana coins if they’re at full mana
        
        LIMITED-TIME OFFER
          Coins now have visual indicators when they’re about to expire
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Talisman of Ascension
        Cost down.
         
        TOTAL COST
          2400 gold
           ⇒ 
          2200 gold
        
        COMBINE COST
          350 gold
           ⇒ 
          450 gold
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        Relic Shield Line
        Quality of life improvements and a buff-fix to Relic Shield and its upgrades.
         
        Bugfix
        BUFF-FIX
          The Relic Shield line’s quest reward shield now properly benefits from effects that modify heal and shield values (ex. Forbidden Idol line, Windspeaker’s Blessing)
        
         
        VFX updates
        PRETTY
          Spoils of War charge indicator sphere VFX have been updated to be more runic and less distracting
        
        PRETTY
          The Relic Shield line’s quest reward shield VFX have been updated to be more Targonian
        
        PRETTY
          Face of the Mountain’s active shield VFX have also been updated to be more Targonian
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        Support Quest Progression VFX
        These status updates were a little too frequent.
         
        STAR PIECE
          Quest progression VFX displays every
          fifth of the way
           ⇒ 
          third of the way toward completion
        
      
    
  
   
  
    Back to top
  
  Starting Items
    
      
        
        Doran's Ring
        Passive is now unique.
        Stacking Doran's Ring allowed champions to bypass their weakness during laning phase, mana regeneration, in this case, and endlessly push, and shove enemies under the tower, even when behind, without any trade-off. Not cool, Nautilus.
         
        newMANA, PLS
          Mana return when killing minions is now UNIQUE.
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Doran's Shield
        Costs more. 
        Doran's Shield should be your starting item when facing a bunch of harassment at early levels, but at its current tuning it’s the best items regardless of situations. We're pulling a potion off of it both to decrease its raw effectiveness and
          to make it have a harder time dealing with ganks and all-ins.
         
        COST
          400 gold
           ⇒ 
          450 gold
        
      
    
  
   
  
    
      
        
        Refillable Potion
        Changing the icon so it doesn’t look quite so similar to another 150 gold, green, health-restoring item.
         
        PRETTY
          Icon has been updated!
        
      
    
  
  
    Back to top
  
  End of Game Stats
    
      
        We're continuing to add more stats to make you feel as awesome in the end of game screen as you (probably) were in the game leading up to it.
         
        WHIMS OF FATE
          Added Crowd Control Score: the combined duration of all CC effects you've applied over the game
        
      
    
  
  
    Back to top
  
  Rotating Game Mode
    
      
        
          
        
        The Hunt of the Blood Moon looms into rotation from 6/16/17 12:00 PT -  6/20/17 4:00 PT, and 6/23/17 12:00 PT - 6/27/17 4:00 PT. Sacrifice Spirits, Demon Heralds, and enemy champions to gain points and the Demon
          Brand buff, which turns you invisible to hunt down your enemies.Only 21 of the most vicious champions are available for the Hunt (10 of which will be free to play while the blood moon still rises).Happy hunting.
      
    
  
  
    Back to top
  
  Chat & Friends
    
      
        Making it a bit easier to track who’s been talking to you, and when.
         
        newHOW POPULAR
          A “More Unread” bar will appear if you’ve got unread messages higher up or further down your friends list. Click the bar to automatically scroll to the message notification. This setting can be toggled off via the “Chat & Friends” tab of the Settings menu.
        
        DATE LINES
          Chat history once again generates date lines when spanning across multiple days. This setting can be toggled off via the Settings cog in the chat window. (Note: Toggling date lines off for one conversation will toggle ‘em off for all conversations!)
        
      
    
  
  
    Back to top
  
  Summoner Level Progression
    
      
        We’ve made some minor adjustments to the 1-30 experience curve so players level at a smoother rate, rather than spiking at levels 5, 10, and 20. Total 1-30 experience requirements are very slightly lower.
      
    
  
  
    Back to top
  
  Bugfixes
    
      
        Enemies affected by Ahri or Rakan’s charms no longer walk in the wrong direction if they cast a spell the instant before being hit by the charm
          Blade of the Ruined King's on-hit effect no longer applies a stack of The Black Cleaver
          Fixed a bug where Gargoyle Stoneplate's Metallicize self-damage reduction was applying twice to Corki's basic attacks
          Lissandra's R - Frozen Tomb no longer fizzles if a spellshield affecting her (ex. Banshee’s Veil) is broken within 0.25 seconds of cast start
          Shaco's W - Jack in the Box now correctly reveals itself from brush and Fog of War when triggered
          Heimerdinger’s E - CH2 Electron Storm Grenade now properly charges nearby turret beam attacks even if it kills an enemy 
          Fixed a bug where, in some languages, Syndra’s R - Unleashed Power tooltip contained information about an in-testing mechanic that was never released
          Tahm Kench can no longer W - Devour a summoned Rift Herald
          Fixed a bug preventing the summoned Rift Herald from being Smited
          Akali can now properly proc >Q - Mark of the Assassin’s bonus damage and energy restore against the summoned Rift Herald
          Pinging Rift Herald no longer produces a debug string in chat
          Fixed a bug where Ekko’s Q - Timewinder affected too large of an area on the return when Ekko is dead
          Ekko’s Q - Timewinder now properly applies Passive - Z-Drive Resonance on the return when Ekko is dead
          Abyssal Mask's aura range indicator now represents the actual range
          Pulsefire Caitlyn's quote when killing Gnar is no longer heard by everyone on the map
          Fixed a bug where Pulsefire Caitlyn could become covered in a blue overlay for the rest of the match if polymorphed by Lulu's W - Whimsy while in combat
          Fixed a bug where Lulu could get the same blue overlay if casting W - Whimsy on any enemy affected by an allied Pulsefire Caitlyn's W - Yordle Snap Trap
          Fixed a bug where Kha'Zix’s evolved body parts visually reverted back to base form after Lulu's W - Whimsy polymorph wore off
          Fixed a bug where Forsaken Jayce's recall audio desynced from the animation when enemies lost and then regained vision of him during the channel
          Jayce Brighthammer now correctly plays the electric buzz SFX for the spawning and despawning of his E - Acceleration Gate
          The tail end of DJ Sona's recall SFX now play consistently
          PROJECT: Yi’s death SFX now correctly play during his death animation
          Syndra’s Classic and Queen of Diamond sphere-popping SFX now correctly play during her death animation
          High Noon Yasuo now correctly shouts his VO when casting E - Sweeping Blade
          Fixed a bug where Veigar's laugh wasn't playing correctly when landing a killing blow with R - Primordial Burst
        
    
  
  
    Back to top
  
  Upcoming Event
    
      
        VS. begins during this patch. A world on the brink of ruin waits to be redeemed through Chaos or Order. Delve into a monumental legend and affect its conclusion by taking on event-exclusive missions. Completing missions grants tokens that help
          determine a victor, and you can also forge tokens into event-only loot.
        
          
        
        
          
            Dawnbringer Riven
          
            Nightbringer Yasuo
        

        None can escape destiny, but you can determine it.
      
    
  
   
"
"5" "
    


		Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
	

    
        Greetings, Summoners,
        It’s time for patch 7.11, so wave your hands side to side and clap like you don’t care.
        We’ve been taking on bigger-ticket champion changes more often, and this patch continues the trend. So, when appropriate, we’ll be separating larger projects out from the rest. This patch, that’s updates to Rek’Sai, Kindred, and Malzahar!
        We’re also continuing to follow up on midseason. A few tanks are struggling without Sunfire Cape’s old combat damage, so we’ve got a few buffs to help them out. Maokai and Zac still aren’t quite hitting the gameplay patterns we’d like, se we’ve making a few more tweaks this patch.
        Past the gameplay front, this patch also brings a few long-awaited features. A new 10-ban draft format will be rolling out to normal and ranked matches over the course of the patch, and item sets make their debut in the updated client!
        Get out there and play some League, friends.
    
    
         Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Phillip \"Costy\" Costigan  Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Rek'Sai, Kindred & Malzahar
        
    
        
            
                
                
                    Rek'Sai
                
                
                    Rek’Sai’s ultimate now launches her at a target she’s recently damaged. Tunnels can be re-entered more quickly. Base damages down, scaling up.
                
                
                    Rek’Sai is a ferocious predator who strikes fear into the hearts of her prey as she hunts them. The way Rek’Sai is currently played —a vanguard who sets up plays for her team—just doesn’t sync up with that promised fantasy.
                    We see a lot of potential for Rek’Sai, and this update is an opportunity to double down on Rek’Sai’s predatory instincts. Rek’Sai should be feared for her individual threat, not the followup of her team. With these changes, we’re reimagining a Rek’Sai who has better backline access in teamfights and does more damage when she gets in there, but is less consistent when behind or built tanky.
                    For more information, check our our post on Rek’Sai’s update.
                
                
                    Base stats
                
                
                    HEALTH GROWTH STAT 90 ⇒ 85
                
                
                    Passive - Fury of the Xer'Sai
                
                
                    Fury generation faster. Burrowed health regeneration ticks more quickly but max regeneration is down.
                
                
                    FURY GENERATION 5 for basic attacks, 10 for unburrowed abilities, 2.5 for additional units hit beyond the first by abilities ⇒ 25 for all attacks and unburrowed abilities
                
                
                    MAX BURROWED HEALTH REGENERATION 25-450 (at levels 1-18) over 5 seconds ⇒ 20-190 (at levels 1-18) over 3 seconds
                
                
                    Q - Queen's Wrath
                
                
                    Base damage down at later ranks. Ratio doubled.
                
                
                    DAMAGE 15/25/35/45/55 (+0.2 bonus attack damage) ⇒ 15/20/25/30/35 (+0.4 bonus attack damage)
                
                
                    Burrowed Q - Prey Seeker
                
                
                    Now has a bonus AD ratio. Does physical damage instead of magic.
                
                
                    newRATIO 0.4 bonus attack damage (in addition to the existing 0.7 ability power ratio)
                
                
                    DAMAGE TYPE Magic ⇒ Physical
                
                
                    Burrowed W - Un-burrow
                
                
                    Primary target is still knocked up, others are now knocked back.
                
                
                    BASE DAMAGE 40/80/120/160/200 ⇒ 50/65/80/95/110
                
                
                    DISPLACEMENT 0.5-1 second knockup on all nearby enemies based on proximity to Rek'Sai ⇒ 1 second knockup on the primary target; 250 range knockback to other nearby enemies
                
                
                    IMMUNITY Only the knocked up target is granted immunity from further knock-ups
                
                
                    IMMUNITY DURATION 10/9.5/9/8.5/8 seconds ⇒ 10 seconds at all ranks
                
                
                    newSTOP AND SMELL THE ROSE ROOTS Rek’Sai can interact with Plants by attacking them while burrowed
                
                
                    E - Furious Bite
                
                
                    Now has base damage, and scales off bonus AD instead of total AD. Damage no longer scales linearly with Fury, but full-Fury casts still deal double damage as true damage.
                
                
                    DAMAGE 80/90/100/110/120% total attack damage ⇒ 50/60/70/80/90 (+ 0.85 bonus attack damage)
                
                
                    removedRAMP-UP Damage no longer scales linearly with Rek’Sai’s current Fury
                
                
                    THRESHOLD Damage still doubled and dealt as True Damage at max Fury
                
                
                    Burrowed E - Tunnel
                
                
                    Tunnel creation and re-entry cooldowns both reduced at later ranks.
                
                
                    COOLDOWN 26/24/22/20/18 seconds ⇒ 26/23/20/17/14 seconds
                
                
                    RE-ENTRY COOLDOWN 10/9/8/7/6 seconds ⇒ 10/8/6/4/2 seconds
                
                
                    newR - Void Rush
                
                
                    Rek’Sai marks champions she damages and can dash to a marked target, dealing damage based off their missing health.
                
                
                    PREY Rek’Sai passively marks enemy champions she damages as Prey for 5 seconds
                
                
                    VOID RUSH Rek’Sai targets a Prey-marked enemy, burrowing after a 0.35 second cast time before emerging from underground and leaping at her target after an additional 0.75 seconds.
                
                
                    UNSTOPPABLE Rek’Sai is unstoppable during both the cast and leap
                
                
                    DAMAGE 100/250/400 (+1.6 bonus attack damage) (+20/25/30% target’s missing health)
                
                
                    COOLDOWN 100/80/60 seconds
                
                
                    RANGE 1500
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Kindred
                
                
                    Passive stacks increase Kindred’s attack range and amplify their abilities.
                
                
                    Kindred were our first attempt at ground-up designing a marksman for the jungle. Although they’ve been on-and-off present in the meta (mostly ‘off’ as of late), their playstyle has settled in a spot that felt closer to skirmisher than marksman. Today, we’re revisiting Kindred's kit to deliver the jungler marksman playstyle we originally intended. Wolf and Lamb have more distinct roles to play, synergizing with one another to make a better-feeling Kindred overall.
                    Here’s the tightrope we’re walking: “jungler” and “marksman” have pretty conflicting needs. Marksmen are typically weaker in the early game, scaling up to late game carry potential. Junglers need at least enough early strength to kill monsters and gank lanes. To be both, we need to define when Kindred has weaknesses, and by process of elimination, that’s mid-game. With clearer emphasis on late-game sustained damage (new scaling from Marks, ratio shifts to bonus AD), we’re lowering the mid-game burstiness their abilities offer.
                    All in all, we want Kindred players to feel good about playing a marksman in the jungle, using the right amount of power during the right parts of the game.
                
                
                    Base stats
                
                
                    ATTACK DAMAGE GROWTH 1.7 ⇒ 2.26
                
                
                    updatedPassive - Mark of the Kindred
                
                
                    removedHEARTSEEKING Kindred’s basic attacks no longer deal a percent of their target’s current health damage based on passive stacks
                
                
                    newDEATH’S REACH Kindred’s basic attacks and Mounting Dread gain 75 range at 4 stacks, plus 25 range every 4 stacks thereafter
                
                
                    newAMPLIFICATION Stacks amplify Kindred’s basic abilities:
                
                
                        Q - Dance of Arrows: Bonus attack speed increased by an additional 5% per stack. (No longer increases base damage.)
                    
                    
                        W - Wolf’s Frenzy: Current health damage increased by an additional 0.5% per stack
                    
                    
                        E - Mounting Dread: Missing health damage increased by an additional by 0.5% per stack
                    
                
                    Q - Dance of Arrows
                
                
                    Grants attack speed on-cast.
                
                
                    newBONUS ATTACK SPEED Now grants 10% attack speed for 4 seconds on cast, plus an additional 5% per Mark of the Kindred stack
                
                
                    removedMARK DAMAGE Mark of the Kindred stacks no longer increase Dance of Arrows’ damage
                
                
                    RATIO 0.2 total attack damage ⇒ 0.65 bonus attack damage
                
                
                    DASH SPEED 400 ⇒ 500
                
                
                    W - Wolf's Frenzy
                
                
                    Deals additional damage based on current enemy health. Kindred can choose where to cast Wolf’s Frenzy.
                
                
                    newCAST RANGE Self-cast ⇒ Anywhere within 500 range (including over walls). Hunting zone radius unchanged.
                
                
                    newCURRENT HEALTH DAMAGE Wolf’s attacks deal an additional 1.5% of the target’s current health as damage, plus an additional 0.5% per Mark of the Kindred stack
                
                
                    RATIO 0.4 total attack damage ⇒ 0.2 bonus attack damage
                
                
                    DAMAGE TYPE Physical ⇒ Magic
                
                
                    E - Mounting Dread
                
                
                    Deals additional damage based on missing enemy health and crits low-health enemies.
                
                
                    newMISSING HEALTH DAMAGE 8% target’s missing health, plus an additional 0.5% per Mark of the Kindred stack
                
                
                    removedMAX HEALTH DAMAGE No longer deals 5% of the target’s maximum health as damage
                
                
                    BASE DAMAGE 40/75/110/145/180 ⇒ 40/60/80/100/120
                
                
                    RATIO 0.2 total attack damage ⇒ 0.8 bonus attack damage
                
                
                    MISSILE SPEED 1600 ⇒ 2000
                
                
                    JAWS OF DEATH Wolf's attack critically strikes targets below 15% health for 50% bonus damage. Threshold increased by 0.5% health per 1% critical strike chance (up to 65% health at 100% crit chance).
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Malzahar
                
                
                    Q, E, and R deal more damage. W spawns Voidlings based on Malzahar’s spellcasts. Voidlings are less threatening early.
                
                
                    Support Malzahar's been an ongoing source of frustration this season, and efforts to keep him in check have exacted a toll on midlane Malzahar, who's left in a pretty unhappy place. A big part of this is how overbearing Void Swarm is early when Malzahar doesn’t need to manage a solo lane. So, we’re pulling in Void Swarm’s early dominance, and redistributing power back into the rest of Malz’s kit. Voidlings are overall less reliable: they’re more fragile, easier to avoid, and have lower early damage that scales back up toward the late game. Void Swarms are also more costly to set up.
                    While his Voildings are less reliable, Malz himself is getting a lot in return. Malefic Visions, which previously enabled a ton of Voidling damage, now does more damage on its own. The same is true for Nether Grasp: to keep Malzahar’s all-in combo threatening against squishies, his ult now deals direct damage to its primary target. Finally, we’re making Call of the Void smoother to use by reducing the amount of time Malz sits still to cast it. The missiles take a bit longer to fire overall, giving us room to - you guessed it - add more damage. All in all, this patch paves the way for Malzahar to return home to mid.
                
                
                    updatedW - Void Swarm
                
                
                    COST 40 mana ⇒ 40/45/50/55/60 mana
                
                
                    COOLDOWN 8 seconds
                
                
                    removedCHARGES Malzahar no longer gains a charge every 20/19/18/17/16 seconds
                
                
                    newSTACKS Malzahar gains a stack of Gathering Swarm when he casts another ability (max 2)
                
                
                    ACTIVE Malzahar summons a Voidling, plus an additional Voidling per stack of Gathering Swarm (max 3 per cast)
                
                
                    removedMULTIPLICATION Voidlings are no longer able to spawn additional Voidlings
                
                
                    CAST RANGE 450 ⇒ 150
                
                
                    Voidling stats
                
                
                    
                            
                                    Click to expand
                                
                                    
                                        Voidlings gain attack speed per level. Overall damage lower early, higher late.
                                    
                                    
                                        ATTACK DAMAGE 30/35/40/45/50 (+0.4 bonus attack damage) ⇒ 5-64.5 (at levels 1-18)
                                    
                                    
                                        BONUS DAMAGE 10/15/20/25/30 (+0.2 ability power) ⇒ 12/14/16/18/20 (+0.2 ability power) (+0.4 bonus attack damage)
                                    
                                    
                                        ATTACK SPEED 0.665 at all levels ⇒ 0.665-0.891 (at levels 1-18)
                                    
                                    
                                        DAMAGE TYPE Attack damage dealt as physical, bonus damage dealt as magic ⇒ Both components dealt as magic
                                    
                                    
                                        DURATION 12 seconds ⇒ 8/8/9/9/10 seconds
                                    
                                    
                                        Voidlings die faster.
                                    
                                    
                                        HEALTH 3, treated as ward health ⇒ 65-201 (at levels 1-18), treated as normal health
                                    
                                    
                                        ARMOR 30, irrelevant due to ward health mechanic ⇒ 16-50 (at levels 1-18)
                                    
                                    
                                        MAGIC RESIST 50, irrelevant due to ward health mechanic ⇒ 8-25 (at levels 1-18)
                                    
                                    
                                        SQUISHED Turret attacks ⇒ Turret and champion basic attacks kill Voidlings regardless of health
                                    
                                    
                                        NOT SQUISHED All other sources of damage (ex. minions, monsters, abilities) now deal normal damage to Voidlings
                                    
                                    
                                        GOLD WHEN KILLED 5 ⇒ 2
                                    
                                    
                                        Voidling movement speed decreased, no longer changes situationally.
                                    
                                    
                                        MOVEMENT SPEED 451 ⇒ 400
                                    
                                    
                                        removedHASTE Voidlings no longer gain 100% movement speed when moving toward priority targets
                                    
                                    
                                        removedLETHARGY Voidlings no longer lose movement speed the farther away they are from Malzahar
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                
                    Q - Call of the Void
                
                
                    CAST TIME 0.5 seconds ⇒ 0.25 seconds
                
                
                    POST-CAST DELAY BEFORE FIRING 0 seconds ⇒ 0.4 seconds
                
                
                    RATIO 0.7 ability power ⇒ 0.8 ability power
                
                
                    E - Malefic Visions
                
                
                    RATIO 0.7 ability power ⇒ 0.8 ability power
                
                
                    R - Nether Grasp
                
                
                    newBEAM DAMAGE 125/250/375 (+1.15 ability power) flat magic damage
                
                
                    NULL ZONE DAMAGE 25/35/45% (+7.5% per 100 ability power) target’s maximum health ⇒ 10/15/20% (+2.5% per 100 ability power) target’s maximum health
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Champions
        
    
        
            
                
                
                    Ahri
                
                
                    Less damage on W and R, more damage on E.
                
                
                    Ahri is outperforming most midlaners due to how broad her strengths are. We're trimming some single-target potential off her auto-targeted spells so she’s more reliant on landing skillshots to secure kills.
                
                
                    W - Fox-Fire
                
                
                    RATIO 0.4 ability power per wisp ⇒ 0.3 ability power per wisp
                
                
                    MAX RATIO VS SAME TARGET 0.64 ability power ⇒ 0.48 ability power
                
                
                    E - Charm
                
                
                    RATIO 0.5 ability power ⇒ 0.6 ability power
                
                
                    R - Spirit Rush
                
                
                    RATIO 0.3 ability power per bolt ⇒ 0.25 ability power per bolt
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Caitlyn
                
                
                    Runaan’s Hurricane bolts no longer stack Headshot.
                
                
                    Because of its interaction with Headshot, Runaan’s Hurricane has been Caitlyn’s best option for area-of-effect and single-target damage. We’re removing this interaction so Caitlyn’s forced to choose which type of damage she wants to spec into. Similarly, we think Caitlyn’s at her finest when she’s sniping enemies with Headshot procs off of well-placed traps. Right now, she gets to have that as well as high sustained damage in teamfights via right-clicking. We’re hitting the Sheriff’s scaling with attack speed items to keep her focused on traps as the game progresses.
                
                
                    Base stats
                
                
                    BASE ATTACK SPEED 0.568 ⇒ 0.543
                
                
                    LV1 BONUS ATTACK SPEED 10% ⇒ 15%
                
                
                    ATTACK SPEED AT LV1 0.625 (unchanged)
                
                
                    Passive - Headshot
                
                
                    removedHURRICANE HEADSHOT Runaan’s Hurricane bolts no longer stack Headshot
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Dr. Mundo
                
                
                    Attack damage per level and W damage per second up.
                
                
                    Since 7.9, we’ve been keeping an eye on how midseason’s itemization changes are affecting our tanky friends. A few uber-durable dudes have been hit particularly hard by the Sunfire Cape changes—Dr. Mundo, Malphite and Sion. We’re compensating these champions with some power boosts aimed at mitigating the loss of Sunfire’s dueling power.
                
                
                    General stats
                
                
                    ATTACK DAMAGE GROWTH STAT 3 ⇒ 3.5
                
                
                    W - Burning Agony
                
                
                    DAMAGE 35/50/65/80/95 per second ⇒ 40/55/70/85/100 per second
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Lee Sin
                
                
                    High-latency players can ward hop.
                
                
                    In the same vein as recent changes to Ryze and Karthus, we’re making Lee Sin’s ward hopping more feasible in high-latency environments.
                
                
                    W - Safeguard
                
                
                    LAG IS NO EXCUSE Cast can now be buffered when placing wards, allowing Lee Sin to quickly place and hop to wards on high-latency environments
                
                
                    SORRY No longer works with the Quick + Selfcast setting. We’re looking into restoring this functionality in a later patch.
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Lucian
                
                
                    Q mana cost up at later ranks.
                
                
                    Lucian’s been able to spec into a decent amount of survivability (Ninja Tabi, Black Cleaver, and Blade of the Ruined King) without significant damage trade-offs. If the Purifier still wants to give up on Essence Reaver, he needs to be more frugal with his spell usage.
                
                
                    Q - Piercing Light
                
                
                    COST 50/55/60/65/70 mana ⇒ 50/60/70/80/90 mana
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Malphite
                
                
                    E armor ratio up.
                
                
                    Sunfire Cape followup buff!
                
                
                    E - Ground Slam
                
                
                    RATIO 0.3 armor ⇒ 0.4 armor
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Maokai
                
                
                    Passive heal base down, health scaling up. Saplings speed and AP scaling down. Brush sapling duration increases with bonus health instead of ability level.
                
                
                    Maokai’s supposed to be a hearty tank who wades into combat, swinging his branches around to disrupt and using his mighty trunk to soak damage. At the moment he plays more like a catapult, launching saplings for slows and damage. Similar to last patch, we’re shifting power away from saplings into his durability.
                
                
                    Passive - Sap Magic
                
                
                    COOLDOWN 30/25/20 seconds at levels 1/9/15 ⇒ 30/25/20 seconds at levels 1/6/11
                
                
                    BASE HEALING 10/30/50/70/90/110/130 ⇒ 5/15/25/35/45/55/65
                
                
                    PERCENT HEALING 4.5/5.5/6.5/7.5/8.5/9.5/10.5% Maokai’s maximum health ⇒ 6/7.5/9/10/11/12/13% Maokai’s maximum health
                
                
                    E - Sapling Toss
                
                
                    RATIO 2% target’s maximum health per 100 ability power ⇒ 1% target’s maximum health per 100 ability power
                
                
                    SAPLING MOVEMENT SPEED 425 + 2.5 per Maokai’s level ⇒ 400, changed based on Maokai’s boots:
                
                Boots of Speed: 425
                    
                    Most upgraded boots: 445
                    
                    Boots of Swiftness & Boots of Mobility: 460
                    
                
                    BRUSH SAPLING DAMAGE 100% on detonation, two ticks for 50% each ⇒ 67% on detonation, two ticks for 67% each (total damage unchanged)
                
                
                    BRUSH SAPLING DURATION 30/40/50/60/70 seconds ⇒ 30 (+2.5% Maokai’s bonus health) seconds
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Renekton
                
                
                    Over the past two patches, we made a bunch of changes to Renekton’s underlying code to address a bunch of longstanding bugs and make him easier to work on in the future. Unfortunately, that work created a number of other issues which, in some respects, have left him worse off than he started. We’re rolling both sets of changes back.
                
                
                    REWIND All patch 7.9 and 7.10 changes to Renekton have been reverted
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Sion
                
                
                    W cooldown decreased, shield’s max health scaling increased.
                
                
                    Sunfire Cape followup buffs!
                
                
                    W - Soul Furnace
                
                
                    COOLDOWN 13 seconds ⇒ 11 seconds
                
                
                    SHIELD SCALING 6/7/8/9/10% Sion’s maximum health ⇒ 8/9/10/11/12% Sion’s maximum health
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Syndra
                
                
                    W area of effect reduced.
                
                
                    Force of Will is pretty hard to miss, leading to gank setups where the only test of skill is whether Syndra can land Scatter the Weak’s stun on a slow-moving target. We're giving opponents a more realistic chance to dodge Force of Will, which gives them a shot at dodging Scatter the Weak as well.
                
                
                    W - Force of Will
                
                
                    AREA OF EFFECT 275 ⇒ 225
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Yasuo
                
                
                    Q stacks expire faster.
                
                
                    Yasuo was already on the cusp of being too powerful and midseason’s cost reductions to critical strike items just pushed him over the edge. We’re reducing the amount of pressure he exerts by sitting on Q stacks to give opponents more chances to play against him.
                
                
                    Q - Steel Tempest
                
                
                    STACK DURATION 10 seconds ⇒ 6 seconds
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Zac
                
                
                    E warning indicator shows up earlier. Zac’s voice isn’t squeaky as often.
                
                
                    Zac’s update gave him more ways to follow up on his own initiation. That was offset by a shorter knockup duration on Elastic Slingshot, but now that it can scale back up to a full second again, we’re giving enemies slightly more warning time.
                
                
                    General
                
                
                    LESS SQUEAKY The health threshold at which Zac’s voice becomes squeakier has been lowered
                
                
                    E - Elastic Slingshot
                
                
                    WARNING INDICATOR Appears 0.75 seconds before Zac lands ⇒ 1 second before Zac lands
                
                
                    Mid-patch 7.10 changes
                
                
                    Just as a reminder. With the max health scaling we added in the initial 7.10 patch, Stretching Strikes was dealing too much damage. We shipped additional base damage nerfs halfway through the patch.
                
                
                    STRETCHING STRIKES BASE DAMAGE 40/60/80/100/120 ⇒ 30/40/50/60/70
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    Xayah & Rakan Warding VO
                
                
                    STOP YELLING, RAKAN Rakan’s warding VO lines are no longer audible to enemies (sometimes giving away his position through fog of war). Allies can still hear him.
                
                
                    STOP MUMBLING, XAYAH Xayah’s warding VO lines are now audible to allies, rather than only Xayah
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Items
        
    
        
            
                
                
                    Abyssal Mask
                
                
                    Name change and icon update to match midseason’s changes.
                
                
                    NAME Abyssal Scepter ⇒ Abyssal Mask
                
                
                    ICON Updated!
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Banshee's Veil
                
                
                    Cost increased. Magic resist increased.
                
                
                    Given the potent defense a spell shield offers in lane, we want to ensure Banshee’s Veil doesn’t come online too early and that enemies have a chance to fight Veil buyers while they’re vulnerable. A cost increase hits both goals at once: buyers need more time to earn the extra gold and are left sitting on just Null-Magic Mantle for longer. That said, we don’t think Veil needs a flat-out nerf, so we’re keeping it competitive at its new cost.
                
                
                    COST 2700 gold (500 gold combine cost) ⇒ 3000 gold (800 gold combine cost)
                
                
                    MAGIC RESIST 45 ⇒ 60
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Blade of the Ruined King
                
                
                    Lifesteal decreased.
                
                
                    Blade of the Ruined King is just overtuned at the moment. The item has a lot of cool identities - dueling item, mild tank buster, early power spike - and we want to make sure to preserve them. However, since it’s already letting buyers win trades via damage, allowing them to heal up so easily afterwards just adds insult to injury.
                
                
                    LIFESTEAL 15% ⇒ 12%
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Guardian Angel
                
                
                    Icon update to match midseason’s changes.
                
                
                    ICON Updated!
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Ninja Tabi
                
                
                    Basic attack damage reduction decreased.
                
                
                    Ninja Tabi should be the go-to item into a ton of physical damage, and its additional tankiness against basic attacks gives it baseline effectiveness against at least the marksman in most games. At the moment, it’s the right choice pretty much whenever the enemy team has any physical damage on top of their marksman, so we’re dialing back that baseline value.
                
                
                    BASIC ATTACK DAMAGE REDUCTION 12% ⇒ 10%
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                
                    Nomad's Medallion
                
                
                    Combine cost decreased. Also affects Talisman of Ascension & Eye of the Oasis.
                
                
                    When we updated Nomad’s Medallion’s build path last patch, the small offset to its combine cost change didn’t go through. Here it is.
                
                
                    COST 875 gold (375 gold combine cost) ⇒ 850 gold (350 gold combine cost)
                
                
                    Talisman of Ascension
                
                
                    COST 2425 gold ⇒ 2400 gold
                
                
                    Eye of the Oasis
                
                
                    COST 1925 gold ⇒ 1900 gold
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Scoreboard Minion Kill Tracking
        
    
        
            
                
                    Playing against a champion who creates lots of smaller units makes it hard to tell how well you’re actually last-hitting. We’re keeping the gold reward earned for fighting these pets but removing the confusion they create around last-hit tracking.
                
                
                    SMALL FRIES The following units no longer increase your Minions Killed stat (they still grant gold):
                
                Elise’s spiderlings
                    
                    Heimerdinger’s turrets (not including his UPGRADE!!!’d turret)
                    
                    Illaoi’s tentacles
                    
                    Malzahar’s Voidlings
                    
                    Shaco’s Jack in the Boxes (including the ones created by Hallucinate’s clone detonation)
                    
                    Yorick’s Mist Walkers and Dark Procession rings
                    
                    Zyra’s Thornspitters and Vine Lashers
                    
                
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Crowd Control Text
        
    
        
            
                
                    With the addition of crowd control name displays above health bars as a dedicated solution, crowd control doesn’t need to be included in floating combat text any more.
                
                
                    IT WAS REDUNDANT Removed floating combat text for crowd control effects
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Ban Formats
        
    
        
            
                
                    Normals & Ranked
                
                
                    We’re adding a simultaneous 10-champ ban phase to all draft Summoner’s Rift modes throughout 7.11, starting with Normal Draft in NA. We want to make sure all players have more agency in the ban phase, as well as attempting to make the time taken to get into game significantly shorter. Read the announcement post here for details, or below for the tl;dr:
                
                
                    LAUNCH NA Normal Draft only at launch, will be rolled out throughout the patch worldwide (including ranked queues)
                
                
                    TOTAL BANS 6, with the last 3 picks of each team getting a ban ⇒ 10, with every player getting a ban
                
                
                    BAN MODEL Sequential ⇒ Simultaneous
                
                
                    BAN VISIBILITY Bans aren’t shown to the enemy team until the end of the ban phase
                
                
                    DUPLICATION Bans can be duplicated across teams
                
                
                    HARDCORE MODE “No ban” is now an option
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    Custom Games
                
                
                    Regular custom games are unchanged for now while we do some backend tweaks to how custom games work. Tournament Draft custom games are switching to the esports format which has been in use for a while, but the UI might be a little unclear for launch. We’ll be cleaning this up in a later patch.
                
                
                    TOURNAMENT DRAFT Now uses a split draft pick/ban phase, identical to esports
                
                
                    CUSTOM DRAFT PICK Unchanged for now
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Lobby Invite Permissions
        
    
        
            
                
                    We’re removing one barrier from getting a party together. Just a small quality-of-life buff for when the captain goes to make a sandwich.
                
                
                    OPEN INVITE Invited players now have invite privileges by default, though captains can still revoke them
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Rotating Game Mode
        
    
        
            
                
                    Team up to overcome the cursed Doom Bots of Doom and their evil overlord before everything you love and cherish is DOOMED!!! Doom Bots is available from 6/2/17 12:00 PT - 6/6/17 04:00 PT and 6/9/17 12:00 PT - 6/13/17 04:00 PT.
                
                
                    
                
                
                    TL;DR:
                    Overcome the Doom Bots’ EVIIIIIIIIL curses — stasis, warping, windwalls (and more), oh my!
                        
                        Survive and defeat the devilish little horror behind it all. Hut, two, three, four...
                        
                    Let the mayhem begin. Mwahaha. MWAHAHAHAHAHAH!!!
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Twisted Treeline Bots
        
    
        
            
                
                    SPOOKY BOTS Intermediate bots have been re-added to Twisted Treeline
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
   
            League Client Update
        
    
        
            
                
                    With the rollout of the new client complete, we’re moving full steam ahead with new features and improvements.
                    You can find solutions to most common issues in the Known Issues section of our support site.
                
                
                    New features
                
                
                    newITEM SET CREATOR We heard you loud and clear—you want item sets, so you got 'em. You can now create custom item sets for specific champions and maps. The new item set creator allows you to start from a default recommended item set for a champion as well as a blank set. There's currently a limit of 20 item sets per account. This is something we'll be re-evaluating based on the feedback we're seeing.
                
                
                    newRECENTLY PLAYED LIST You'll now find a “Recently Played” section at the bottom of your friends list that will display the names of players you've recently been in games with (as well as the champions they played), and will allow you to view their profiles, add them, block them, or drag to invite them to a lobby.
                
                
                    Notable Fixes
                
                We made the mastery panel smaller to allow players to see the left/right better during champ select and be able tell who’s turn it is and who they’re picking.
                    
                    Overall improvements to champion select to make actions clearer.
                    
                    Fixes to bugs that were blocking the ability to lock in your choice during champ select.
                    
                    We gave the X on the lobby and end of game screen a makeover to give it more space.
                    
                
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Dragon Fist Lee Sin
        
    
        
            
                
                    Dragon Fist Lee Sin’s splash and in-game VFX have been adjusted. The dragon on his back is now gold in his splash, and now turns gold when he casts R - Dragon’s Rage. (Chromas change the in-game color.)
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Loot Interface
        
    
        
            
                
                    Having to scroll to reach unopened chests is kinda annoying, especially if you’ve accumulated a lot of loot.
                
                
                    DON’T MAKE ME SCROLL Moved the “Materials” section to the top of Loot
                
            
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Queue Health Update
        
    
	
		
			What does this update mean?
			
		
		With overall matchmaking health between the two SR ranked queues pretty consistent in all regions, we’re going to be retiring the Queue Health Update for now. We’ll bring it back if the need arises.
		
			
				Ranked Solo/Duo
			
			
				Ranked Flex
			
        
	

    
        Back to top
    
     
            Bugfixes
        
    
        
            
            	
            		This one was in its own little patch close to - but separate from - 7.11 itself. If you haven't gotten 7.11 yet, this fix will be there when you do!
            	
            	Fixed a bug where mana coins dropped by Ancient Coin and its upgrades were granting other types of secondary resources (ex. Ferocity) as well
            		
            	Casting Riven’s Q - Broken Wings casts too quickly after one another no longer prevents unit targeting from working properly on casts beyond the first
                    
                    Enemies no longer turn invisible if Zac tries to drop them in huge areas of unpassable terrain at R - Let’s Bounce!’s max range (no such areas exist on Summoner’s Rift)
                    
                    Fiora no longer purges Sejuani’s E - Permafrost stacks if she uses W - Riposte to parry an attack while at three stacks
                    
                    When Darius triggers Noxian Might by applying a fifth Passive - Hemorrhage stack via Q - Decimate, Decimate now properly only applies one stack of Hemorrhage to other units hit
                    
                    Fixed a bug where, when blinded by Teemo’s Q - Blinding Dart, Draven’s critical strikes still dealt the crit portion of their damage
                    
                    Fixed a bug where, when Statikk Shiv’s chain lighting was proc’d by Pulsefire Ezreal’s Q - Mystic Shot, it wasn’t properly critting at 100% crit chance
                    
                    Fixed a bug causing the projectile of an enemy Caitlyn’s Q - Piltover Peacemaker to not properly appear until it hit a unit when fired from fog of war
                    
                    Hecarim’s E - Devastating Charge stomp can no longer be reused if Hecarim’s initial target dies during the stomp animation
                    
                    Fixed a bug where, when Xayah and Rakan use Tandem Recall while empowered by Baron, only the champion who started the Recall would gain Empowered Recall’s bonus movement speed
                    
                    Fixed a number of visual bugs with Jax’s E - Counterstrike across various skins
                    
                    Switching Summoner’s Rift music from Updated to Classic no longer prevents the music on other maps from playing
                    
                    Various VO lines triggered when Pulsefire Caitlyn scores a pentakill, ace, or killing spree now properly play
                    
                    The underside of Teemo’s stolen hat no longer looks kinda weird during Pulsefire Caitlyn’s Recall
                    
                    Hand-glowy particles for effects like Sheen and Passive - Rising Spell Force no longer slip to Pulsefire Ezreal’s elbow during his Recall
                    
                    Pulsefire Ezreal’s Q - Mystic Shot and R - Trueshot Barrage on-hit particles now properly display when killing jungle monsters
                    
                    Forecast Janna’s basic attacks have been touched up to match the changes to Janna’s other skins in patch 7.9
                    
                    Cosmic Dawn Rakan once again creates a starry nebula during his Recall
                    
                    Candy King Ivern once again burps rudely after Recalling
                    
                    Justicar and Atlantean Syndra’s Dark Sphere audio no longer plays during their death animations
                    
                    Restored SKT T1 Azir’s death animation audio
                    
                    Restored missing sound effects during Chosen Master Yi’s joke
                    
                    You can once again hear Master Arcanist Ziggs’ bomb exploding in his stomach during his joke
                    
                    Restored Bewitching Nidalee’s Vintage loading screen border for original owners
                    
                    Oktoberfest Gragas’s Recall audio now properly plays on Howling Abyss
                    
                
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
        Back to top
    
    
            Upcoming Skins & Chromas
        
    
        
            
                
                    The following skins will be released in patch 7.11:
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                            Chemtech Tryndamere
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
"
"6" NA
"7" "
	

		Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
	


	
		Oh why, hello there!
		Midseason has been here for a patch, which means it’s time to revisit the slate of changes and course-correct for any who aren’t hitting the mark. That means a few followup changes to the three tanks, additional usability for quests, and a tweak to Spirit Visage.
		We’re also taking this time to hit some overperforming champions and bring them in line. Fizz and Lulu are no strangers to patch notes, and Ivern has been one of the top junglers for awhile now. Knocking them down a peg should leave other champions more room to shine.
		Finally we’re delivering modernization improvements to a number of champions. The scale ranges from playstyle updates for Heimerdinger - yes, that Heimerdinger - and Rammus - yes, that Rammus - but also small quality of life tweaks (animations for Riven or Jax).
		But wait, there’s more! If you enjoyed the ARAM changes from last time, we’re adding more on top of them to streamline the Howling Abyss experience.
		Whether you’re dropping turrets with Heimerdinger or tremoring them down with Rammus, see you on the Rift, summoners!
	
	
		 Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Phillip \"Costy\" Costigan  Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
			
	Back to top


		Mid-Patch Updates
	


	
		
			
				5/22/2017
			

			
				No mincing words: Zac's 7.10 changes over-buffed him. With its new max health scaling, Stretching Strikes is dealing too much damage, so we're going harder on our initial base damage nerfs.
			

			
				Zac
			
			
				STRETCHING STRIKES BASE DAMAGE 40/60/80/100/120 ⇒ 30/40/50/60/70
			

		
	



	
		
			
				5/19/2017
			
			
			
				Charm abilities
			
			
				BUGFIXES Fixed a few bugs with Ahri's E - Charm or Rakan's R - The Quickness interacting oddly with other effects
			

		
	



	
		
			
				5/17/2017
			
			
			
				Kled
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Kled wasn't gaining his flat bonus movement speed towards enemies while dismounted
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Kled wasn't moving the expected distance during his dismount
			
			
			
				Maokai
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug allowing Maokai to cast E - Sapling Toss globally i
			
			
			
				Zac
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a visual bug where if Zac died while charging R - Let's Bounce!, his ult kidnap animation would play on top of him for the rest of the game
			

		
	


	Champions
	
		
			
				
				Heimerdinger
				More turrets, more rockets, more grenades. W and E hits charge turret beam attacks. Passive grants self movement speed near turrets instead of ally/turret health regen.
				
					ヽ༼ຈل͜ຈ༽ﾉ It’s been quite a while since Heimerdinger got any attention. His “nest of autonomous turrets” fantasy is unique, but when AI-controlled units comprise the bulk of Heimer’s strength, it becomes difficult to get Heimerdinger to a fair spot. On the one hand, Heimer deserves to be competitive against opponents who know the ins and outs of turret behavior. On the other, when turrets are intelligent enough to fight enemies without Heimer’s assistance, they become overly punishing against players (and champions) who lack the ability to out-manipulate their AI.
					That brings us to today’s update, which puts Heimerdinger more squarely in the driver’s seat of his turret gameplay. We’ve removed a number of turret “self-preservation” rules, meaning that deploying a turret is much less of a fire-and-forget affair. Rocket and grenade hits are now the primary means by which turrets charge their laser attacks, meaning Heimer needs to play an active role in fights to unleash their full potential. We’ve given power-ups to W and E to ensure Heimerdinger feels good about using the rest of his kit, which means he’ll also have more of an impact in fights where he’s unable to prep his turrets in advance.
					Overall, this update gives the Revered Inventor more playmaking potential and fairer interactions with other champions. As always, we’ll be observing his statistical performance closely as his update deploys to live environments. Should any unexpected fluctuations in the trajectory of his aggregate data require further modulation of output variables, we’ll do appropriate science to get him in a stable spot. ヽ༼ຈل͜ຈ༽ﾉ
				
				Base stats
				
					BASE HEALTH REGEN 11 ⇒ 7
				
				
					HEALTH REGEN GROWTH 1.75 ⇒ 0.55
				
				newPassive - Hextech Affinity
				
					SPEEDY HEIMER Heimerdinger gains 20% movement speed when within 300 range of allied turrets and turrets he creates
				
				Q - H-28G Evolution Turret
				More turrets early. Base damage down, ratio up. Beam attack charges more slowly but is massively accelerated by W and E hits. Turrets are less punishing toward melee enemies.
				
					STACK LIMIT 1/2/2/3/3 ⇒ 3 at all ranks
				
				
					STACK GENERATION 24/23/22/21/20 seconds ⇒ 20 seconds
				
				
					BASE DAMAGE 12/18/24/30/36 (+0.15 ability power) ⇒ 6/9/12/15/18 (+0.3 ability power)
				

					BEAM DAMAGE 40/60/80/105/130 ⇒ 40/60/80/100/120 (ability power ratio unchanged)
				
				
					removedLOW-EFFORT CONTENT Turrets no longer prioritize nearby enemy champions or champions that attack them
				
				
					removedFAREWELL Targets marked by Heimer will no longer remain marked if he's over 1200 from them. 

				
				
					newBEAM CHARGE ABILITY BONUS Nearby turrets gain 20% charge for each W rocket that hits a champion and 100% charge if E’s grenade hits a champion (same bonuses apply to ult-empowered W and E casts)
				
				
					BEAM CHARGE TIMER Turrets charge from 0 to 100% in 16 seconds ⇒ 90 seconds
				
				
					removedBEAM CHARGE ATTACK BONUS Turrets no longer gain 1/2/3/4/5% beam charge for each of their basic attacks
				
				
					removedPREHEATED Turrets no longer spawn with 70% beam charge
				
				
					CLARITY The charge bar is now white instead of dark blue
				
				W - Hextech Micro-Rockets
				
					MANA COST 70/80/90/100/110 ⇒ 50/60/70/80/90
				
				
					COOLDOWN 11 seconds at all ranks ⇒ 11/10/9/8/7 seconds
				
				
					newBEAM CHARGE Each rocket that hits a champion grants 20% beam charge to all turrets within 1000 range of the damage (max 100% if all five rockets hit)
				
				E - CH-2 Electron Storm Grenade
				
					COOLDOWN 18/16/14/12/10 seconds ⇒ 12 seconds at all ranks
				
				
					RADIUS 210 ⇒ 250 (center stun zone unchanged)
				
				
					newBEAM CHARGE If the grenade hits a champion, all turrets within 1000 range of the damage gain 100% beam charge
				
				
					DISCO Heimerdinger can now lob the grenade onto himself
				
				UPGRADE!!!’d E - CH-3X Lightning Grenade
				
					BASE DAMAGE 150/200/250 ⇒ 150/250/350
				
				
					RATIO 0.6 ability power ⇒ 0.75 ability power
				
			
		
	

		
			
				
				Rammus
				Q is faster, has a shorter cooldown but also last for less time. W amplifies his passive but also slows Rammus. E grants attack speed, R now applies slows but does less damage.
				
					While we originally passed on Rammus when planning our midseason work, we landed on an opportunity to give him some love later on in the process. Rammus’s playstyle, like his vocabulary, is overly simple: if he can navigate through a fight and Powerball a juicy target, the rest of his abilities are basically no-brainers. Once he’s in the enemy team, of course he wants to Taunt a priority target and of course he wants to be extra tanky and of course he wants to do damage. There weren’t enough points where he needed to think about when to use his abilities.
					Reducing Powerball’s duration but having Rammus go faster more often will allow him to decide when he wants to try and chase someone or just back up. When he does go in, we’re giving his other skills slightly more complexity to give him decisions about how he wants to use them. Curling up will still make him incredibly tanky but at the expense of movespeed, and his ult will now steadily stack a slow on people around him. Now, the Armordillo has to decide whether to slow one target to a crawl, or stand still while he takes the heat for the team.
				
				newPassive - Spiked Shell
				
					removedPHYSICAL SHELL Rammus no longer gains 25% of his armor as attack damage
				
				
					newMAGIC SHELL Rammus’s basic attacks deal 8-20 (at levels 1-13) (+10% armor) bonus magic damage
				
				Q - Powerball
				
					COOLDOWN 16/14.5/13/11.5/10 seconds ⇒ 16/13.5/11/8.5/6 seconds
				
				
					DURATION 7 seconds ⇒ 6 seconds
				
				
					newCHANNEL Powerball is now a channeled effect
				
				
					MAXIMUM MOVEMENT SPEED 155% ⇒ 150-235% (at levels 1-18)
				
				
					DAMAGE 100/150/200/250/300 ⇒ 100/135/170/205/240
				
				
					SLOW 20/25/30/35/40% for 2 seconds ⇒ 40/50/60/70/80% for 1 second
				
				
					COLLISION DETECTION Radius slightly reduced, allowing Rammus to better navigate through enemies. Collision check rate increased, making collision more consistent.
				
				
					AREA OF EFFECT Unchanged. In other words, Rammus will knock back, damage, and slow enemies in a larger area than the collision radius.
				
				
					BUGFIX Rammus can now interact with Plants during Powerball
				
				W - Defensive Ball Curl
				
					COOLDOWN 14 seconds (starting when W is cast) ⇒ 6 seconds (starting when W ends)
				
				
					DURATION 6 seconds (unchanged)
				
				
					BONUS RESISTANCES 40/60/80/100/120 ⇒ 20 flat, plus 50/55/60/65/70% of Rammus’s total resistances
				
				
					newCURLED UP Rammus slows himself by 60% while Defensive Ball Curl is active
				
				
					newOK Rammus can now reactivate Defensive Ball Curl to end the effect early
				
				
					newSPIKIER SHELL While Defensive Ball Curl is active, Spiked Shell is amplified by 50%
				
				
					THORNMAIL-ESQUE Enemies that basic attack Rammus while Defensive Ball Curl is active take damage equal to 25/35/45/55/65 (+10% Rammus’s armor) ⇒ Spiked Shell’s bonus damage (12-30 (+15% Rammus’s armor) while Defensive Ball Curl is active)
				
				E - Frenzying Taunt
				
					NAME Puncturing Taunt ⇒ Frenzying Taunt
				
				
					removedPUNCTURING Frenzying Taunt no longer reduces the target’s armor by 5/10/15/20/25
				
				
					newFRENZYING Rammus gains 20/25/30/35/40% attack speed for the duration of the taunt (1.25/1.5/1.75/2.0/2.25 seconds)
				
				
					newALRIGHT The attack speed buff’s duration constantly refreshes while Rammus’s other abilities are active
				
				R - Tremors
				
					DAMAGE PER SECOND 65/130/195 (+0.3 ability power) ⇒ 40/80/120 (+0.2 ability power)
				
				
					newARCHITECTURAL INSTABILITY Tremors deals double damage to structures
				
				
					newSHAKY FOOTING Tremors slow affected enemies by 8/10/12% for 1.5 seconds. Subsequent tremors add an additional stack and refresh the duration (max slow: 64/80/96%)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Cassiopeia
				
					For real thissssssssss time.
				
				General
				
					NO HOVER SNAKES Cassiopeia’s tail now follows her realistically as she moves and turns
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Fizz
				W base damages down, ratios up.
				
					Stop us if you’ve heard this one before - a sticky assassin builds primarily defensively and yet still does enough damage to threaten tanks and squishies alike. Fizz’s changes this patch are just another shade of updates past - paring down his base damage while boosting his scaling to compensate.
				
				W - Seastone Trident
				
					BLEED DAMAGE 25/40/55/70/85 (+0.33 ability power) ⇒ 20/30/40/50/60 (+0.4 ability power)
				
				
					ACTIVE DAMAGE 25/40/55/70/85 (+0.33 ability power) ⇒ 20/30/40/50/60 (+0.4 ability power)
				
				
					ACTIVE DAMAGE VS MARKED ENEMIES 75/120/165/210/255 (+1.0 ability power) ⇒ 60/90/120/150/180 (+1.2 ability power)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Graves
				Q base damages down, ratios up. R cooldown increased at early ranks.
				
					Despite changes earlier in the season, we’re still seeing enemies of the Outlaw torn asunder. Our approach this patch is to hit his early game in two-pronged fashion. First, we’re shifting some of End of the Line’s power to its bonus attack damage ratios, reducing his early game burst. We’re also hitting Collateral Damage’s cooldown in the early game, as it can often feel like his ult is always available. This should force Graves to really consider the best time to use Collateral Damage, rather than just firing it on cooldown.
				
				Q - End of the Line
				
					Q1 BASE DAMAGE 55/70/85/100/115 ⇒ 40/55/70/85/100
				
				
					Q1 RATIO 0.75 bonus attack damage ⇒ 0.8 bonus attack damage
				
				
					Q2 BASE DAMAGE 80/125/170/215/260 ⇒ 80/110/140/170/200
				
				
					Q2 RATIO 0.4/0.6/0.8/1.0/1.2 bonus attack damage ⇒ 0.4/0.7/1.0/1.3/1.6 bonus attack damage
				
				R - Collateral Damage
				
					COOLDOWN 100/90/80 seconds ⇒ 120/100/80 seconds
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Jax
				
					For a character whose gameplay revolves around basic attacks, Jax’s attack animations left some to be desired.
				
				General
				
					POW POW POW POW Jax’s basic attack, empowered attack, and crit animations have been improved across all skins to better match the moment damage is applied and generally feel more responsive
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Ivern
				Movement speed reduced. Passive groves cost more health and mana.
				
					As Ivern players have gotten better at planning jungle routes - or adapting them on the fly - one thing has become clear: he is too able to keep one step ahead of opposing junglers. The relatively low costs on Friend of the Forest give Ivern insanely flexible paths, which means even when opposing teams do a good job at tracking him, he’s able to change plans without much cost. Specifically, his ability to save Smite for clearspeed - and not require its sustain - allows him to save smite for invades without sacrificing much in the way of channeling his own camps.
				
				Base stats
				
					MOVEMENT SPEED 330 ⇒ 325
				
				Passive - Friend of the Forest
				
					BASE HEALTH COST 25% ⇒ 33%
				
				
					BASE MANA COST 30% ⇒ 33%
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Lee Sin
				Movement speed reduced. R cooldown increased.
				
					Lee Sin has more uptime than almost any jungler, thanks to how easily he can move around the map and how often his ultimate is up. The Blind Monk already has two gap-closers that let him chase - or escape - enemy champions. Having best-in-class movement speed on top of that seemed like overkill.
				
				Base stats
				
					MOVEMENT SPEED 350 ⇒ 345
				
				R - Dragon's Rage
				
					COOLDOWN 90/75/60 seconds ⇒ 110/85/60 seconds
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Lulu
				Base health reduced. E shield strength reduced.
				
					Lulu’s become the pick when you want someone with a bit of everything - Aggression? She has it. Protection? She has it. The problem gets real when the Fae Sorceress becomes the best option in both cases, outshining the rest of the enchantress club. We’re leaving Lulu’s poke and trade potential intact, but softening her durability so opponents can better punish missteps and poorly-chosen trades.
				
				Base stats
				
					HEALTH 553 ⇒ 525
				
				E - Help, Pix!
				
					BASE SHIELD STRENGTH 80/120/160/200/240 ⇒ 70/105/140/175/210
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Kassadin
				E hitbox modernization.
				
					It’s time, Kassadin.
				
				E - Force Pulse
				
					MODERNIZATION Force Pulse now determines what it hits at the end of its cast time, rather than the start
				
				
					RANGE 585 ⇒ 600
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Maokai
				Q mana and cooldown down. Q knockback distance slightly increased. E damage reduced.
				
					While Maokai’s update gave him the desired incentives to play around brush, empowered saplings are dealing too much damage in the early game (especially if maxed first). This is particularly prevalent at game-start: a single empowered sapling massively interferes with the enemy jungler’s initial clear.  We’re reining in sapling damage so E spam doesn’t remain the strongest thing Maokai can do.
					With saplings powered down in the early game, we wanted to be sure Maokai still has the strength he needs to make it through the jungle and top lane. We’re upping the impact of his melee-range tools to give him the means to hold his own mid-combat.
				
				Passive - Sap Magic
				
					removedCAN’T SAP STONE No longer procs against structures
				
				
					CAST TIME 0.275 seconds ⇒ 0.25 seconds (still scales down with Maokai’s attack speed)
				


					MULTITASKING Sap Magic’s animation no longer locks Maokai out of his abilities longer than a normal basic attack would
				
				Q - Bramble Smash
				
					COST 45/50/55/60/65 mana ⇒ 50 mana at all ranks
				
				
					COOLDOWN 8/7.5/7/6.5/6 seconds ⇒ 8/7.25/6.5/5.75/5 seconds
				
				
					KNOCKBACK DISTANCE Slightly increased (maximum ~275 ⇒ ~300)
				
				E - Sapling Toss
				
					COST 60 mana at all ranks ⇒ 60/65/70/75/80 mana
				
				
					BASE DAMAGE 45/70/95/120/145 ⇒ 25/50/75/100/125
				
				
					ENEMY HEALTH RATIO 6/6.5/7/7.5/8% (+2% per 100 ability power) target’s max health ⇒ 8% (+2% per 100 ability power) target’s max health
				


					WHOOPS Empowered Sapling damage over time is now properly treated as a damage-over-time effect (empowered saplings can no longer single-handedly proc Thunderlord’s Decree)
				
				R - Nature's Grasp
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug that caused Nature’s Grasp to fire without going on cooldown if Maokai died while casting it
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Rakan
				Q cast range increased. W damage increased at later ranks. E shield decreased at later ranks.
				
					While other enchanters like Janna and Lulu naturally want to max their shields, that doesn’t seem particularly appropriate for Rakan. Rather than perpetually clinging to allies, the Charmer should feel good about busting a move in the middle of the enemy team. We’re rescaling a few of Rakan’s ability level-up incentives to encourage him to hit the dance floor.
					We’re also giving Gleaming Quill’s cast range a bump. Rakan’s healing is potent on paper, but in practice, he doesn’t get to take advantage of it as often as as you’d expect. A range increase should provide Rakan better access to his healing, particularly in his more punishing matchups.
				
				Q - Gleaming Quill
				
					RANGE 800 ⇒ 900
				
				W - Grand Entrance
				
					BASE DAMAGE 70/110/150/190/230 ⇒ 70/115/160/205/250
				
				E - Battle Dance
				
					SHIELD VALUE PER CAST 50/85/120/155/190 ⇒ 50/75/100/125/150
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Renekton
				Cleanin’ up even more stuff.
				W - Ruthless Predator
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Ruthless Predator’s lockout time was shorter than intended (0.525 seconds instead of 0.75)
				
				
					BUGFIX Fury-empowered casts no longer generate Fury
				
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug where, when casting Ruthless Predator and queueing either Cull the Meek or Dice while at 100 Fury, the queued ability would sometimes not be empowered or consume Fury
				
				E - Slice and Dice
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Slice and Dice’s ranges were shorter than intended (400 instead of 450)
				
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Slice and Dice’s dash speeds were slower than intended (650 instead of 750)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Riven
				Timing of Q animation cancelling is more consistent. If you don’t know what animation cancelling is, you should just skip this section.
				
					While animation cancelling has been integrated into Riven’s coding for some time now, there are still a lot of timing inconsistencies that make learning her frustrating, especially for players on higher-latency connections. We’re cleaning these up so mastering Riven feels like a test of your reflexes, not your internet connection.
				
				General
				
				Q - Broken Wings
				
					CONSISTENCY The timing around when Riven becomes able to animation cancel Q casts, as well as how long she has to animation cancel, have both been made more consistent
				
				
					NO FUN Riven can no longer joke, taunt, or laugh during Broken Wings’s animations
				
				
					PING ME PLS Broken Wings can more reliably target units on high-latency environments
				
				
					WHAT? Fixed a bug where the knockback on Broken Wings’s third cast ended sooner than intended if it interrupted a different displacement effect or if the target collided with terrain
				
				E - Valor
				
					SHOW IT Fixed a bug where spell queueing sometimes didn’t properly work when casting Valor during Broken Wings’s animation
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Sejuani
				Frost Armor grants fewer flat resistances at early levels.
				
					Sejuani came out of the midseason gates more ferociously than we had intended. Her mid-patch follow up brought her much closer to an acceptable balance state but Frost Armor is still out of line in early game fights (particularly in lane). With these changes, the Fury of the North will still be tough while Frost Armor is up in the late game, but won’t be as overbearing in early scraps.
				
				Passive - Fury of the North
				
					FROST ARMOR FLAT RESISTANCES 100 at all levels ⇒ 20/60/100 at levels 1/7/14
				
				Q - Arctic Assault
				
					HITBOX Shifted slightly to address instances where Sejuani collided with targets behind her
				
				W - Winter's Wrath
				These changes mostly cancel each other out since Winter’s Wrath takes about a second to complete. Slight cooldown increase overall.
				
					COOLDOWN PARADIGM Cooldown starts on-cast ⇒ once both swings are complete
				
				
					COOLDOWN 10/9/8/7/6 seconds ⇒ 9/8/7/6/5 seconds
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Udyr
				Mana costs reduced.
				
					Back in 7.8 we made some adjustments to everyone’s favorite ManBearTigerTurtlePhoenixMonkey. Within that set of changes we tweaked Udyr’s mana costs to decrease per level rather than spell rank. The aim was to make low-rank abilities less of a drain on Udyr’s mana overall, but he lost the ability to aggressively reduce the mana costs of his main stances in the process. We’re further reducing his mana costs across the board, allowing him to go about his shapeshifting business less inhibited. We’ll likely have more follow-up changes once we’ve seen how a non-OOM’d Udyr performs, but for now you can spam to your heart's content, dear Udyr main.
				
				General
				
					MANA COSTS 50-33 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 45-28 (at levels 1-18)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Yorick
				Quality-of-life improvements.
				
					Yorick is pretty reliant on his summoned units, whether that’s graves, Mist Walkers, or The Maiden. Some of those units had unintuitive or frustrating behavior, so we’ve made some quality of life changes.
				
				Passive - Shepherd of Souls
				
					INDEPENDENCE Mist Walkers no longer perish when they move too far away from Yorick or the Maiden
				
				Q - Last Rites
				
					GRAVE CONVENIENCE If Lasts Rites kills a unit when Yorick has max graves, the furthest grave will now be replaced rather than no grave being spawned
				
				R - Eulogy of the Isles
				
					BUGFIX The Maiden’s stats now increase when Yorick puts another skill point into Eulogy of the Isles, rather than remaining unchanged until Yorick summons her again
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Zac
				Q deals damage based on Zac’s max health. W and E are easier to cast during Q. E knockup duration increases over charge time.
				
					We’ve seen steady improvement in Zac’s performance since his update landed, but there are a few rough edges to smooth out while things are still malleable. Most notably, we were overly cautious in preventing Elastic Slingshot’s knockup from guaranteeing Let’s Bounce!’s kidnap, which has left Zac’s signature move feeling pretty flat. We’re restoring Slingshot’s oomph as a long-range initiation tool and slightly bumping up Let’s Bounce!’s channel time to preserve a brief window for enemies to panic-Flash the kidnap. We’ve also got a suite of improvements for Stretching Strikes. Many are usability improvements: the slam effect is more reliable against jungle camps and minion waves, and Zac won’t lock himself out of his other skills for as long. Toss in a few direct power-ups, and Stretching Strikes should pack more of a punch across the board.
				
				Q - Stretching Strikes
				
					DAMAGE 50/70/90/110/130 (+0.3 ability power) ⇒ 40/60/80/100/120 (+0.3 ability power) (+2.5% Zac’s maximum health)
				
				
					SECOND HIT BONUS ATTACK RANGE 100 ⇒ 125
				
				
					SECOND HIT BLOB GENERATION Generates a blob if Zac hits a second champion ⇒ a second enemy of any kind
				
				
					SLAM DAMAGE RADIUS 200 ⇒ 300
				
				
					BUGFIX If Stretching Strikes’ second hit would kill a minion or monster, the target will now wait to die until after Zac has slammed it into Stretching Strikes’ first target
				
				
					PRECISE STRIKES If Stretching Strikes’ first target is standing on top of other enemies, the second hit will now reliably choose a different target than the first
				
				
					MULTITASKING Zac can now cast Unstable Matter and queue up Elastic Slingshot during Stretching Strikes’ second attack and while slamming two targets together.
				
				E - Elastic Slingshot
				
					KNOCKUP DURATION 0.5 seconds ⇒ 0.5-1 second, based on how long Zac charged Elastic Slingshot
				
				R - Let's Bounce!
				
					TIME TO FULLY CHARGE 1 second ⇒ 1.1 seconds
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Items
	
		
			
				Ancient Coin Line
				
					We don’t think Ancient Coin needs any major power or directional changes at the moment, but we see room for a few feel-good/quality of life changes.
				
				Favor passive
				
					CONSISTENCY Siege minions now always drop a coin (overall coin generation unchanged on average)
				
				Quest reward
				
					EMPEROR’S FAVOR The bonus skill point now behaves as if you’re one level higher than you actually are
				
				Nomad's Medallion
				
					Talisman of Ascension is the more generalist support item, so we’re shifting Nomad’s Medallion and its upgrades to carry some health regeneration (good for everybody).
				
				
					BUILD PATH Ancient Coin + Faerie Charm + 375 gold ⇒ Ancient Coin + Rejuvenation Bead + 350 gold (total cost unchanged)
				
				
					HEALTH REGEN +25% base health regen ⇒ +50% base health regen
				
				Talisman of Ascension
				
					HEALTH REGEN +150% base health regen ⇒ +175% base health regen
				
				Eye of the Oasis
				
					HEALTH REGEN +100% base health regen ⇒ +125% base health regen
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Relic Shield Line
				
					Every Targon’s support knows the frustration of trying to execute minions late game, so we’re making it a bit easier to get a hit in once Relic Shield’s been upgraded to either of its final forms.
				
				Face of the Mountain
				
					SPOILS OF WAR Face of the Mountain grants melee champions 150 bonus attack range and slightly increased attack speed against minions that can be executed by Spoils of War
				
				Eye of the Equinox
				
					SPOILS OF WAR Eye of the Equinox grants melee champions 150 bonus attack range and slightly increased attack speed against minions that can be executed by Spoils of War
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Spellthief’s Edge Line
				
					The whole point of the lockout on Spellthief’s Edge is to prevent champions from both farming waves and using the gold item - at least without some tradeoff. However, it was also punishing supports too harshly when they happened to kill a minion while poking. We’re shifting the mechanic so that minion kills may harm your overall Tribute output, but won’t stop you from using any Tribute stacks you already had.
				
				Tribute passive
				
					MINION PENALTY Killing a minion disables Tribute procs for 6 seconds per minion slain ⇒ pauses Tribute stack generation for 6 seconds per minion slain
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Spirit Visage
				Health increased. Magic resist and health regeneration decreased.
				
					Spirit Visage is still occupying the slot of “magic resist item you want most of the time”. To leave room for competitor items to shine against magic damage, we’re toning down overall stat pool and shifting its magic resist down a little bit.
				
				
					HEALTH 425 ⇒ 450
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 60 ⇒ 55
				
				
					HEALTH REGENERATION +200% base health regen ⇒ +100% base health regen
				
			
		
	
	
        
        	
		        
		            Active Item Tracking
		        
	            
	                
	                    A continuation of last patch’s work to add recognition to active item effects!
	                
	                Righteous Glory: Number of takedowns enabled by the shockwave
	                    Banner of Command: Damage dealt to turrets by empowered minions (in addition to existing gold earned stat)
	                    Zz’Rot Portal: Damage dealt to turrets by empowered minions (in addition to existing gold earned stat)
	                
	        
        
    
    
        Back to top
    
	Rift Herald
	
		
			
				
					Enemy awareness improvements around Rift Herald.
				
				
					GLOBAL QQ Rift Herald’s death cry is now global when killed as a neutral objective
				
				
					AWARENESS Added a chat notification for the enemy team indicating which player picked up the Eye of the Herald
				
				
					MY PEOPLE NEED ME Rift Herald pings the enemy team whenever she prepares to leap at a turret
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	
		Howling Abyss
	
		
			
				Melee champions now have resistance aura, gold flow increased, inhibitor respawn sooner, significant minion changes.
				
					In Patch 7.8 we focused on game pacing and reducing the frequency of stalemates. This patch is a follow up, touching a few things that came up as result of the last changes.
				
				Howling Abyss aura
				
					Thanks to the increased mana regen on Howling Abyss, mages are able to spam poke out a bit harder, which makes melee champions’ lives harder than they should be.
				
				
					newFREEBIES Melee champions now gain 10 magic resist
				
				Gold pacing
				
					More gold means getting more items faster. It’s just like math! Wait a second….
				
				
					AMBIENT GOLD 5 per 5 seconds ⇒ 5.5 per 5 seconds
				
				
					GOLD PER NEARBY MINION KILL Being near an enemy minion death without last-hitting it grants 3 gold ⇒ 5 gold
				
				Minions
				
					Siege minions exert a bunch of pressure on towers, but whichever team has the waveclear to get their siege minion to the opposing tower is the only team which gets to use that pressure. We’re alternating siege minion spawns between sides to give teams with less wave clear a chance to also exert pressure.
				
				
					newTAKE TURNS The first wave has no siege minions. From there, Siege minion spawns now alternate between teams, starting with blue side in wave 2 and red side in wave 3
				
				
					MINION GROWTH Minions become stronger every 60 seconds (every 2.4 waves) ⇒ every 50 seconds (every 2 waves)
				
				
					MELEE MINION DAMAGE GROWTH +0.5 every 2 waves ⇒ +1.0 every 2 waves
				
				
					CASTER MINION DAMAGE GROWTH +1.5 every 2 waves ⇒ +2.0 every 2 waves
				
				Super minions
				
					Last patch’s changes to minion wave spawn rates inflated the number of super minion-empowered waves, so we’re bringing inhibitor respawn times down to match. We’re also tweaking super minion resistances to give both types of damage threats the same chance to kill them. 
				
				
					INHIBITOR RESPAWN TIMER 300 seconds ⇒ 250 seconds
				
				
					BASE ARMOR 100 ⇒ 60
				
				
					BASE MAGIC RESIST -30 ⇒ 10
				
				
					MOVEMENT SPEED AURA Always active ⇒ Only active while the minion is out of combat
				
				Rod of Ages
				
					STACKING Gains a stack once per minute ⇒ every 40 seconds
				
				Tear of the Goddess
				
					STACKING Grants +4 maximum mana ⇒ +6 maximum mana on spellcast or mana expenditure
				
				Archangel's Staff
				
					STACKING Grants +8 maximum mana ⇒ +12 maximum mana on spellcast or mana expenditure
				
				Manamune
				
					STACKING Grants +4 maximum mana ⇒ +6 maximum mana on basic attack, spellcast, or mana expenditure
				
				Guardian's Hammer
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 15 ⇒ 20
				
				Guardian's Orb
				
					ABILITY POWER 30 ⇒ 35
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	
		Twisted Treeline
	
		
			
				Super minion armor decreased, magic resist increased.
				
					After playing with buffed super minions on TT we realized they are not quite tuned to 3 people so we’re tweaking their values so everybody can effectively kill them.
				
				Super minions
				
					BASE ARMOR 100 ⇒ 60
				
				
					BASE MAGIC RESIST -30 ⇒ 10
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Pulsefire Ezreal Update
	
		
			
				
					The adventurous time-law fugitive now has newly-upgraded specs. Learn more about his update.
				
				Updated VO
					Updated basic attack animations
					Updated VFX
					Updated texture for all four forms
					New recall animation
					New homeguard animation
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Crowd Control Display
	
		
			
				
					As a follow up from the last patch, we’re adding Polymorph and Grounded to the crowd control display table! More to come soon.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Unanimous Surrender at 15
	
		
			
				
					Now live on all non-RGM queues, you can surrender at 15 minutes with a unanimous team vote.
				
				
					RIDE TOGETHER DIE TOGETHER Surrender votes between 15:00 and 19:59 need to be unanimous to go through.
				
				
					DEFINITELY NOT A /REMAKE Surrendering 5 minutes earlier with a unanimous team vote works as a full-on surrender.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Ping Muting
	
		
			
				
					The new ping-mute button axes standard pings, smart pings, and the newer HUD pings. The old mute-chat button is still there, and still mutes chat as well as extracurricular animations (/d) and emotes (ctrl+6).
				
				
					DON’T WANT TO HEAR IT Find the ping-mute button on the tab menu, right next to the chat-mute button.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Rotating Game Mode
	
		
			
				
					Claim the incredible power of Ascension to conquer the Crystal Scar of Shurima. Ascension is now live from 5/19/17 12:00 PT - 5/23/17 04:00 PT and 5/26/17 12:00 PT - 5/30/17 04:00 PT.
				
				  
					 
										
				
					Check out this Ascension post for more details on the rotating game mode. For those who just need a TL;DR:
					Go 5v5 to claim the incredible power of Ascension by taking down Ancient Ascendant Xerath. Use Ascension to conquer the Crystal Scar of Shurima.
						First team to reach 200 points wins. Score:
						
							1 point for champion kills.
								3 points for capturing a Shuriman relic.
								5 points for landing the killing blow on an Ascended champion.
								2 points for each kill you acquire while Ascended.
							
					
					Go forth. Conquer. Ascend.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
			
		League Client Update
	
		
			
				
					We retired the legacy client in many regions and over the next two weeks we’ll be completing the roll out of the new client.
					You can find solutions to most common issues in the Known Issues section of our support site.
				
				New features
				
					newSTART NEW CONVERSATIONS IN CHAMP SELECT Now you can start new conversations with your friends during champ select. You can also see your friends list ordered by availability.
				
				
					newBLOCK FROM ANYWHERE You can now manually block players from anywhere in the client. Navigate to the Block List in client settings, and type in their name to block. It's also now accessible when you right click player names in the \"recently played\" menu (find by clicking the \"Add Friend\" button on the social panel).
				
				Notable Fixes
				Fixed custom game lobbies showing the incorrect highest rank between game modes.
					Fixed visual bug where players would sometimes see two party captains in a lobby after the original captain had left.
					Fixed a bug where players couldn’t accept invites after the sender entered queue, or saw the summoner name display as “...”
					QUIT button in the lobby has been replaced with X.
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Your Shop
	
		
			
				
					Your Shop now works in the updated client and will have a grand re-opening to celebrate. For those not familiar with Your Shop:
				
				The thoughtful Discountbot selects six skins that it thinks you’ll like and offers them at varying discounts. Beep boop.
					These discounts may include Legacy skins not currently available in the store
					If you receive a skin discount on a champion you don’t own, Your Shop will offer the champion and skin together as a bundle, with the same discount applied to both items
					
						If you buy the champion individually through the store for no discount, Your Shop will automatically remove it from the bundle and offer the skin on its own
						
					Ultimate, Legendary, Limited, Loot-exclusive, and relatively new skins (released in the last 3 months) will not be featured in Your Shop
				
					Your Shop will be open from 5/18/17 at 12:00 PT until 6/6/17 at 23:59 PT.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Queue Health Update
	
	
		
			What does this update mean?
			
		
		
			
				Ranked Solo/Duo
			
			
				Ranked Flex
			
        
	

		"
"8" NA
"9" "
		

		Got patching problems? Check the Boards for tips and solutions!
	


		
			Howdy folks,
			The midseason train is leaving the station, so hop onboard and we’ll take a look at the cargo we’re carrying. 
			In the first row we have the Maokai, Sejuani and Zac updates. We’re making their kits more distinct and sharpening each of their identities. With tanks on the mind we seized the opportunity to revisit our durability items and how resistances were performing in general. We have some good stuff down below with new items like Gargoyle Stoneplate and Adaptive Helm, as well as shifts of power in items like Guardian Angel and Abyssal Scepter.
			Since we’re on the subject of items, we also wanted to make sure our damage items play nice with the durability changes above. We’re cool with how ability power items are doing, but to hit the right balance on the AD front we need to siphon some power from armor penetration into other stuff.
			We’re also adding quests to Support starting items! We wanted supports to have more room to be interactive and meaningful in lane without throwing raw stats and gold at them. We’re also improving the clarity around how they support their team: items now have more detailed stat tracking, crowd control is more visible, and the end-of-the-game screen has some beefed up stats!
			Last but not least, Rift Herald has a brand new encounter and reward. Whenever defeated, she can be summoned to wreak havoc on the closest lane - you better pay attention to her otherwise there won’t be much of your base left.
			Now that we’ve gone over our itinerary, it’s time for this train to get rolling. Choo Choo.
		
		
			 Paul \"Aether\" Perscheid  Mattias \"Gentleman Gustaf\" Lehman  Lucas \"Luqizilla\" Moutinho
					
		Back to top



		Mid-Patch Updates
	

	
		
			
				5/5 Updates
			
			
				Sejuani
			
			
				Shipping the Frost Armor changes we alluded to earlier.
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug causing Frost Armor not to break from instances of damage that were entirely absorbed by a shield
			
			
				FROST ARMOR COOLDOWN 9 seconds at all levels ⇒ 15/12/9 seconds at levels 1/7/14
			
			
			
				Gargoyle Stoneplate
			
			
				BUGFIX The cooldown of Gargoyle Stoneplate's active effect is no longer incorrectly reduced by cooldown reduction
			
			
			
				Warwick
			
			
				CRASH FIX Fixed a crash issue Warwick was causing
			

			
				Azir
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug that could cause Sand Soldier attacks to sometimes not deal damage
			
			
			
				Twitch
			
			
				BUGFIX Venom Cask once again properly adds a stack of Deadly Venom as the cask explodes
			
			
			
				Fullscreen Mode
			
			
				BUGFIXES Fixed a few issues regarding fullscreen mode, such as DirectX errors, offset screens, and framerate capping
			
			
		
	


	
		
			
				5/4 Balance Update
			
			
				A few firefighting changes based on early midseason trends. We'll have additional followup in normal patches once we've had enough time to properly assess how midseason has landed.
			
		
	


	
		
			
			
				Sejuani
			
			
				Sejuani's hit the ground running harder than anticipated. We're tapping down some of her newfound strength.NOTE: A few of the changes we want to make can't be done with the tools that ship quick balance fixes. Expect another update soon with adjustments to Frost Armor.
			
			
				Base stats
			
			
				HEALTH 600 ⇒ 560
			
				
			
				W - Winter's Wrath
			
			
				COST 60 mana ⇒ 80 mana
			
			
				FIRST HIT DAMAGE 30/35/40/45/50 ⇒ 20/25/30/35/40
			
			
				SECOND HIT DAMAGE 40/75/110/145/180 ⇒ 30/65/100/135/170
			
			
		
	


	
		
			
			
				Zac
			
			
				Zac's update introduced new mechanics to learn and make new decisions around. These buffs should ease the learning process a bit.
			
			
				Q - Stretching Strikes
			
			
				SLOW DURATION 0.25 seconds ⇒ 0.5 seconds
			
				
			
				E - Elastic Slingshot
			
			
				BASE DAMAGE 80/120/160/200/240 ⇒ 80/130/180/230/280 (reverting the original damage change)
			
		
	


	
		
			
			
				Rift Herald
			
			
				BUGFIX Fixed a bug where canceling Eye of the Herald's summoning ritual at the very end of its 0.25 second wind-up (before the uncancellable 3-second channel begins) could cause the item to go on an extremely long cooldown, preventing it from being used before it expires
			
		
	


	
		
			
			
				Support Attack Animations
			
			
				These missed the original round of patch notes so we'll call 'em out now. If something felt different in your first few matches of the patch, you weren't crazy!			
			
			Annie, Janna, Morgana, Nami, Sona, and Soraka have had non-gameplay impacting adjustments made to their attack animations
				Janna, Nami, and Sona will now use their crit animations when doing empowered attacks
				Janna and Nami have had adjustments to their basic attack visual and sound effects
		
	



		Tank Updates
		
			
				
					
					Maokai
					
						While most tanks bring specific strengths to the table, Maokai does everything at once. So, when the Twisted Treant is at- or above-par with his classmates, he quickly becomes the go-to pick. At the same time, no specific strategy or team comp depends on Maokai’s particular set of skills to succeed. When he’s weaker than other tanks on average, he vanishes off the face of the earth.
						This update's about establishing strategies and situations where you really want Maokai, as well as ones where you really don't. We're shaving away generic strengths like Vengeful Maelstrom and its damage reduction aura, and replacing them with situationally-powerful tools like Nature's Grasp, which can lock down bunches of enemies at once but requires setup to succeed. With new potential to claim and control areas (plus a clarified hatred for spellcasters), choosing Maokai is now a much more intreeguing decision.
					
					General
					
						TREEMOTIONAL Maokai’s VO has been updated to match his lore. He’s a mad tree, not a sad tree.
					
					
						ICONS Maokai’s ability icons have been updated
					
					
						ABILITY VISUALS Maokai’s ability animations and visual effects have been updated
					
					Base stats
					
						HEALTH 572.2 ⇒ 540
					
					
						HEALTH GROWTH STAT 90 ⇒ 95
					
					
						HEALTH REGEN 7 ⇒ 5
					
					
						ARMOR 28.7 ⇒ 30
					
					Passive - Sap Magic
					
						removedSAP STACKING Sap Magic no longer uses a stacking system
					
					
						newCOOLDOWN 30/25/20 seconds (at levels 1/6/17)
					
					
						newRECKLESS MAGIC Each time Maokai casts a spell or is struck by an enemy’s spell, Sap Magic’s cooldown is reduced by 4 seconds (once per spellcast)
					
					
						HEAL 5/6/7% maximum health (at levels 1/7/13) ⇒ 10/30/50/70/90/110/130 flat, plus 4.5/5.5/6.5/7.5/8.5/9.5/10.5% maximum health (at levels 1/6/9/11/13/15/17)
					
					
						THRESHOLD Sap Magic won’t trigger if Maokai is above 95% health
					
					Q - Bramble Smash
					
						NAME Arcane Smash ⇒ Bramble Smash
					
					
						COST 45/50/55/60/65 mana (unchanged)
					
					
						COOLDOWN 8/7.5/7/6.5/6 seconds (unchanged)
					
					
						CAST TIME 0.383 seconds ⇒ 0.35 seconds
					
					
						DAMAGE 70/115/160/205/250 (+0.4 ability power) (unchanged)
					
					
						KNOCKBACK Enemies near Maokai are knocked back a flat distance ⇒ based on distance from Maokai (closer targets are knocked back slightly more)
					
					
						MOVEMENT SPEED SLOW 20/27/34/41/48% for 1.5 seconds ⇒ 99% for 0.25 seconds
					
					W - Twisted Advance
					
						COST 75 mana at all ranks ⇒ 60/65/70/75/80 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 13/12/11/10/9 seconds (unchanged)
					
					
						DAMAGE 9/10/11/12/13% (+3% per 100 ability power) target’s maximum health ⇒ 50/75/100/125/150 (+0.4 ability power) flat damage
					
					
						ROOT DURATION 1/1.25/1.5/1.75/2 seconds ⇒ 1/1.1/1.2/1.3/1.4 seconds
					
					updatedE - Sapling Toss
					Saplings tossed into brush become empowered, lasting longer and dealing extra damage.
					
						COST 60/70/80/90/100 mana ⇒ 60 mana at all ranks
					
					
						COOLDOWN 12 seconds ⇒ 11 seconds
					
					
						SAPLING DURATION 40/45/50/55/60 seconds ⇒ 30 seconds
					
					
						DAMAGE 80/120/160/200/240 (+0.6 ability power) flat damage ⇒ 45/70/95/120/145 flat damage plus 6/6.5/7/7.5/8% (+2% per 100 ability power) target’s maximum health
					
					
						SLOW 50% for 1 second ⇒ 35% for 2 seconds
					
					
						newFAT SAPLINGS Saplings tossed into brush last 30/40/50/60/70 seconds and have a larger detonation radius. Enemies caught in the explosion take 100% additional damage over 2 seconds.
					
					
						MINION/MONSTER CAP Sapling Toss’s damage against non-champions is capped at 300 (empowered sapling damage over time has its own cap, for a total of 600 per empowered sapling)
					
					newR - Nature's Grasp
					Nature’s Grasp creates a massive wall of brambles that slowly advances forward. Each bramble damages and roots the first enemy champion hit.
					
						BRAMBLES The wall is comprised of five brambles, each of which can affect one champion.
					
					
						COST 100 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 120/110/100 seconds
					
					
						RANGE 2500
					
					
						DAMAGE 150/225/300 (+0.75 ability power)
					
					
						ROOT 0.6-2.4 seconds, scaling up over the first 1000 distance traveled
					
					Splash updates
					
						
							
							Charred Maokai
						
						
							
							Totemic Maokai
						
						
							
							Festive Maokai
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Sejuani
					
						Sejuani's ult is in the running for one of the strongest abilities in the game, but that distinction comes at a cost. Her basic abilities have been kept in a watered-down state to allow Glacial Prison to shine. We're evening things out by converting some of Glacial Prison's power into more impactful things for Sej to do across the rest of her kit. (Real talk, her ult was so bonkers before that the trimmed-down version is still powerful in its own right.)
						In terms of what's new, we're keying into Sejuani's themes of Freljordian warleader and heavy cavalry. Frost Armor now augments her mount, Bristle, allowing Sejuani to charge into battle unfettered by slows. She calls melee allies to arms as she approaches the fray, empowering their strikes to render enemies vulnerable to Permafrost's point-and-click stun. With greater strength in her basic abilities, Sejuani’s the tank to pledge fealty to when your team prefers to get up close and personal with the enemy.
					
					General
					
						TITLE The Winter’s Wrath ⇒ Fury of the North
					
					
						ICONS Sejuani’s ability icons have been updated
					
					
						ABILITY VISUALS Sejuani’s ability animations and visual effects have been updated
					
					Base stats
					
						ARMOR 29.5 ⇒ 27
					
					
						ARMOR GROWTH STAT 3 ⇒ 4
					
					
						ATTACK RANGE 125 ⇒ 150
					
					
						ATTACK DAMAGE 57.5 ⇒ 56
					
					
						ATTACK DAMAGE GROWTH STAT 3.3 ⇒ 3
					
					
						ATTACK SPEED 0.67 ⇒ 0.625
					
					
						ATTACK SPEED GROWTH STAT 1.45% ⇒ 3%
					
					newPassive - Fury of the North
					FROST ARMOR: After not taking damage for a while, Sejuani gains bonus resistances and slow immunity. Frost Armor briefly lingers after Sejuani takes damage.
					
						BONUS RESISTANCES Frost Armor doubles Sejuani’s total resistances, then adds 100 additional bonus armor and magic resist
					
					
						BOAR MOBILITY Sejuani is immune to slows while Frost Armor holds
					
					
						LINGER 1/2/3 seconds (at levels 1/7/14)
					
					
						RECHARGE Frost Armor recharges after 9 seconds of not taking damage
					
					
						ANTS Damage from minions or small monsters neither breaks Frost Armor nor interrupts its recharge timer
					
					ICEBREAKER: Enemies stunned by Sejuani are frozen, causing her first spell or attack against them to deal bonus damage.
					
						DAMAGE 10/15/20% target’s maximum health (at levels 1/7/14)
					
					
						MONSTER DAMAGE 400
					
					Q - Arctic Assault
					
						COST 80/85/90/95/100 mana ⇒ 70/75/80/85/90 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 15/14/13/12/11 seconds ⇒ 13/12.5/12/11.5/11 seconds
					
					
						DAMAGE 80/125/170/215/260 (+0.4 ability power) ⇒ 60/90/120/150/180 (+0.4 ability power)
					
					
						KNOCKUP DURATION ~0.75 seconds ⇒ 0.5 seconds
					
					
						removedAREA KNOCKUP Sejuani no longer knocks up enemies around the first target hit
					
					newW - Winter's Wrath
					Sejuani swings her mace in an arc, then lashes out in a line. Both hits deal damage and apply Frost.
					
						COST 60 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 10/9/8/7/6 seconds
					
					
						FIRST HIT Deals 30/35/40/45/50 (+1.5% Sejuani's maximum health) damage in a cone, applying Frost and knocking back minions and monsters
					
					
						FIRST HIT DELAY 0.25 seconds, starting on cast
					
					
						SECOND HIT Deals 40/75/110/145/180 (+4.5% Sejuani's maximum health) damage in a line, applying Frost
					
					
						SECOND HIT DELAY 0.75 seconds, starting after the first hit
					
					
						LIKE LUCIAN Sejuani can move freely during Winter’s Wrath. Both swings will strike in the cast direction, but their hitboxes follow Sejuani’s movement.
					
					newE - Permafrost
					
						FROSTY STRIKES Sejuani and nearby melee allies apply Frost with their basic attacks, stacking up to four times. Sejuani can cast Permafrost on enemies with max Frost stacks.
					
					
						COST 20 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 1.5 seconds
					
					
						PER-TARGET COOLDOWN 10/9/8 seconds (at levels 1/7/14, matching Fury of the North’s breakpoints)
					
					
						DAMAGE 40/60/80/100/120 (+0.3 ability power)
					
					
						STUN DURATION 1/1.25/1.5/1.75/2 seconds
					
					updatedR - Glacial Prison
					Sejuani throws her True Ice bola, damaging and stunning the first enemy champion hit. Bolas that travel before exploding are empowered.
					
						COST 100 mana
					
					
						COOLDOWN 130/115/100 seconds ⇒ 120/100/80 seconds
					
					
						EMPOWER RANGE Bolas are empowered after traveling 400 distance
					
					
						DAMAGE 100/125/150 (+0.4 ability power)
					
					
						EMPOWERED DAMAGE 150/250/350 (+0.8 ability power)
					
					
						STUN 1 second, doubled for empowered bolas (triggers - but is not prevented by - Permafrost’s per-target stun cooldown)
					
					Empowered bolas also leave behind an ice storm that explodes after a brief delay.
					
						STORM DURATION 2 seconds
					
					
						STORM SLOW 30% while targets are inside
					
					
						EXPLOSION DAMAGE 150/250/350 (+0.8 ability power)
					
					
						EXPLOSION SLOW 80% for 3 seconds
					
					Splash updates
					
						
							
							Darkrider Sejuani
						
						
							
							Sabretusk Sejuani
						
						
							
							Traditional Sejuani
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
					Zac
					
						Zac’s already got some cool stuff going for him, particularly when it comes to diving in with Elastic Slingshot. The thing is, he uses most of his gooey flair to make his way into a fight, leaving him without anything remarkable to do once he’s there. This is a narrower problem than what our other tank updates aim to address, but bringing more of Zac’s kit up to Elastic Slingshot’s bar is a goal we feel is well worth pursuing.
						Goo lets us do some thematically weird stuff - an opportunity Zac hasn’t taken full advantage of. We’re using this update to give Zac two new ways to cause chaos once he’s made his way into a fight. Zaun’s Secret Weapon knocks enemy skulls together with Stretching Strikes, and Let’s Bounce! gives him the ability to kidnap people standing on top of him. These new tools give Zac the means to shuffle opponents around the battlefield with sticky, stretchy abilities that feel uniquely his own.
					
					General
					
						PITCHY Zac’s voice now changes in pitch and speed based on his current size
					
					
						ICONS Zac’s ability icons have been updated
					
					
						ABILITY VISUALS Zac’s ability animations and visual effects have been updated
					
					
						NON-ABILITY VISUALS Many of Zac’s idle, movement, and emote animations have also been updated
					
					Base stats
					
						#CLEANNUMBERS Rounded a bunch of stats by very small amounts. Move along.
					
					Passive - Cell Division
					All of this is unchanged but we’ll leave it here as a refresher!
					
						
								
										Click to expand
									
										
											HEAL ON GOO PICKUP 4% max health
										
										
											REVIVE COOLDOWN 300 seconds
										
										
											HEALTH ON REVIVE 10-50% health, based on remaining bloblet health
										
										
											BLOBLET REFORM TIME 8/7/6/5/4 seconds (at levels 1/6/10/14/17)
										
										
											BLOBLET HEALTH 12% of Zac’s max health
										
										
											BLOBLET RESISTANCES 50% of Zac’s armor and magic resist
										
									
								
						
					newQ - Stretching Strike
					Zac’s arm stretches, grabbing the first enemy it hits. Zac then grabs the next enemy he basic attacks and throws them toward each other.
					
						COST 4% current health
					
					
						COOLDOWN 12/11/10/9/8 seconds
					
					
						DAMAGE 50/70/90/110/130 (+0.3 ability power)
					
					
						SLOW 60% for 0.25 seconds
					
					
						BONUS ATTACK RANGE 100
					
					
						COLLISION DAMAGE 50/70/90/110/130 (+0.3 ability power) to all enemies in the collision area
					
					W - Unstable Matter
					All of this is unchanged but we’ll leave it here as a refresher!
					
						
								
										Click to expand
									
										
											COST 4% current health
										
										
											COOLDOWN 5 seconds
										
										
											COOLDOWN REFUND 1 second every time Zac picks up a Goo chunk
										
										
											DAMAGE 40/55/70/85/100 flat, plus 4/5/6/7/8% (+2% per 100 ability power) target’s maximum health (max 200 versus monsters)
											
									
								
						
					E - Elastic Slingshot
					
						COST 4% current health (unchanged)
					
				
					COOLDOWN 24/21/18/15/12 seconds (unchanged)
				
				
					TIME-OUT Elastic Slingshot automatically cancels after 0.9/1.05/1.2/1.35/1.5 seconds ⇒ 0.9/1/1.1/1.2/1.3 seconds of channeling
				
				
					REFUND ON CANCEL Canceled Elastic Slingshots refund 50% cooldown and cost (unchanged)
				
				
					DAMAGE 80/130/180/230/280 (+0.7 ability power) ⇒ 80/120/160/200/240 (+0.7 ability power)
				
				
					KNOCKUP 1 second ⇒ 0.5 seconds
				
				
					EXTRA GOO Zac spawns a chunk of Goo for every enemy champion or clone hit by Elastic Slingshot, rather than just the first (unchanged)
				
				newR - Let's Bounce!
				Zac squishes himself down on-cast, becoming immune to crowd control and slowing enemies above him while charging.
				
					COST No cost
				
				
					COOLDOWN 130/115/100 seconds
				
				
					PUDDLE PHYSICS Zac is immune to crowd control while charging (can still be targeted and hit by abilities)
				
				
					STICKY FEET Enemies above Zac are slowed by 30/40/50%
				
				
					CHARGE TIME Let’s Bounce! becomes fully charged after 1 second and can be held for an additional 1.5 seconds thereafter
				
				
					SHORT CHARGE If Let’s Bounce! is released before Zac charges for at least 1 second, Zac knocks back nearby enemies on release
				
				Fully-charged casts cause Zac to suck up all enemies standing on top of him and carry them to the target location.
				
					LONG CHARGE If Let’s Bounce was charged for 1 second or longer, Zac scoops up enemies above him, becoming unstoppable and carrying them to the target location
				
				
					RANGE 700/850/1000
				
				
					DAMAGE 150/250/350 (+0.7 ability power) to all enemies in the landing area
				
				
					SLOW 25% for 0.5 seconds to all enemies in the landing area
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	New Durability Items
	
		
			
				new
				Adaptive Helm
				Provides health and magic resist. Increases durability against repeated casts of the same spell.
				
					Tanks have been struggling to deal with certain types of magic damage, specifically battle mages like Ryze or Cassiopeia who churn spell after spell into their enemies. Because burst mages have longer cooldowns - and rarely enough damage to one-shot tanks, tanks are less likely to die to them than they are the followup damage from marksmen. Battle mages - with their low cooldowns - circumvent that pattern by continuing to threaten tanks throughout a fight.
					This leaves tanks feeling a bit underwhelmed with their available MR against battle mages. We can’t simply tune up MR items, however, without causing tanks to entirely invalidate other mages. Instead, we’re introducing Adaptive Helm to allow tanks some breathing room against persistent spellcasters. Tanks already have items that are tuned sustained damage from physical sources, with items like Randuin’s Omen or Frozen Heart helping them weather the storm. Adaptive Helm is a similar item for incoming magic damage.
				
				
					COST 2800 gold
				
				
					BUILD PATH Null-Magic Mantle + Spectre’s Cowl + Rejuvenation Bead + 1000 gold
				
				
					HEALTH 300
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 55
				
				
					BASE HEALTH REGENERATION +100%
				
				
					COOLDOWN REDUCTION +10%
				
				
					UNIQUE PASSIVE Taking magic damage from a spell or effect reduces all subsequent magic damage from that spell or effect by 15% for 4 seconds.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				new
				Gargoyle Stoneplate
				Provides armor and magic resist. Gain more resistances when near multiple enemy champions. Active grants bonus health but reduces your damage; more health granted if near multiple enemy champions.
				
					Two types of champions stack durability items: fighters, and tanks. Tanks go all in on durability, so they can keep protecting, disrupting, and enabling carries throughout a fight. Fighters, on the other hand, want to pick up a bit of durability but ultimately care about their damage as well.
					This puts pure durability items in a weird place. If they provide too much raw tankiness, they risk making fighters too hard to duel. On the other hand, if they don’t provide enough, tanks eat too much ambient damage in teamfights to feel safe doing their job. We’re introducing Gargoyle Stoneplate to give tanks - and maybe fighters who have already fallen behind in the one-on-one - the option to gear up for teamfights without making them impossible to duel.
				
				
					COST 2500 gold
				
				
					BUILD PATH Chain Vest + Negatron Cloak + 980 gold
				
				
					ARMOR 40
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 40
				
				
					UNIQUE PASSIVE - STONE SKIN If 3+ enemy champions are nearby, gain 40 bonus armor and magic resist
				
				
					UNIQUE ACTIVE - METALLICIZE For 4 seconds, grow in size and gain bonus health equal to 40% of your maximum health, but reduce damage dealt by 60%. If Stone Skin is active, the health increase becomes 100% instead.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Durability Item Adjustments
	
		
			
				
					Health is a pretty generic stat, making you tanky against everybody. Resistances are a bit more sharpened, granting increased durability against one type of damage. And then there’s the unique effects on each item, which are much more specific. At the moment, we think items which provide health and resistances are falling too far towards the generalist end.
					Most of those items split their stat value about 50/50 between health and resistances. Since health is such a generic durability stat, that gives tanks a pretty efficient one-item power spike. We want the type of damage you itemize against to be more of an intentional decision, so we’re tweaking those generalist items to be more directed in what type of damage they protect against. In other words: less health, more resistances, stronger unique effects.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Sunfire Cape
				Health down, armor up. Burn radius down. Burn damage down versus champions, up versus non-champions.
				
					Sunfire Cape has been the top lane first-buy for quite some time, and it’s not hard to see why. With waveclear, durability, and champion combat power, it has everything a growing top laner needs. We’re sharpening its identity as the “pushing” item by pushing (sorry) more strength into damage against non-champions - at the expense of dueling potency.
				
				
					HEALTH 500 ⇒ 425
				
				
					ARMOR 50 ⇒ 60
				
				
					BURN DAMAGE 26-43 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 12-29 (at levels 1-18)
				
				
					BONUS DAMAGE VS MINIONS/MONSTERS +50% ⇒ +200%
				
				
					BURN RADIUS 400 ⇒ 325
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Bami's Cinder
				
					Burn radius down.
				
				
					BURN RADIUS 400 ⇒ 325
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Enchantment: Cinderhulk
				Burn radius down. Burn damage down versus champions, up versus non-champions.
				
					Higher burn damage to monsters should help tank jungler clear speed without overtuning their dueling potential. It also now matches Sunfire’s burn numbers, which is nice from a symmetry standpoint.
				
				
					BURN DAMAGE 9-43 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 12-29 (at levels 1-18)
				
				
					BONUS DAMAGE VS MINIONS/MONSTERS +100% ⇒ +200%
				
				
					BURN RADIUS 400 ⇒ 325
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Spirit Visage
				Health down. Magic resist up. Healing bonus up.
				
					Magic resist tank items aren’t very robust at the moment. Spirit Visage is by and far the top choice, and Banshee’s Veil is pretty much there for more stats. Spirit Visage is meant to be enticing for champions with high healing (or a strong healer on their team), but we don’t want it to outshine every other option in every other case.
				
				
					HEALTH 500 ⇒ 425
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 55 ⇒ 60
				
				
					BONUS HEALING RECEIVED 25% ⇒ 30%
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Spectre's Cowl
				Magic resist down.
				
					Now that tanks have more magic resist options available, Cowl doesn’t need to be quite so potent on its own.
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 30 ⇒ 25
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Dead Man's Plate
				Health down. Armor up.
				
					Dead Man’s Plate is designed to help melee champions close the gap so they can put the hurting on their opponents, but it was also bringing a lot of unnoticed damage of its own. We’re trimming the smaller damage moments in favor of more uptime on chasing power.
				
				
					HEALTH 500 ⇒ 425
				
				
					ARMOR 50 ⇒ 60
				
				
					DREADNOUGHT Gain up to 12.5 Momentum stacks ⇒ 20 Momentum stacks per second while moving
				
				
					SLOW Crushing Blow’s slow no longer decays over the duration
				
				
					removedCRUSHING BOOP Basic attacks while below 100 Momentum stacks no longer purge current stacks to deal damage. Instead, they reduce Momentum stacks by 15 for no bonus effect.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Randuin's Omen
				Health down. Crit strike damage reduction up. Active slow strength up but duration down.
				
					Randuin’s Omen is “the health/armor item that’s pretty good against basic attacks”. We’re sharpening that even further by greatly increasing its power against critical strikes, while reducing its effectiveness against other threats.
				
				
					COST 2900 gold (unchanged)
				
				
					BUILD PATH Giant’s Belt + Warden’s Mail + 900 gold ⇒ Ruby Crystal + Warden’s Mail + Ruby Crystal + 1000 gold
				
				
					HEALTH 500 ⇒ 350
				
				
					CRITICAL STRIKE DAMAGE REDUCTION 10% ⇒ 20%
				
				
					ACTIVE Slow all nearby enemies by 35% for 4 seconds ⇒ 55% for 2 seconds
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Warmog's Armor
				Warmog’s Heart passive activates at a lower threshold and regenerates more health.
				
					Pulling health out of our tank items left Warmog’s Armor feeling a bit inaccessible. We’re compensating for the lower expected health from items, while also providing light buffs and quality of life improvements to its passive.
				
				Warmog's Heart passive
				
					ACTIVATION THRESHOLD 3000 total health ⇒ 2750 total health
				
				
					HEALTH REGENERATION 3% max health per second ⇒ 5% max health per second
				
				
					COOLDOWN UPON TAKING DAMAGE 8 seconds ⇒ 6 seconds
				
				
					newTHEY TRIED Minion damage only puts Warmog’s Heart on a 3 second cooldown
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				updated
				Banshee's Veil
				Now a mage item! Health removed, ability power added.
				
					For tanks, Banshee’s Veil isn’t bought for being Banshee’s Veil, it’s bought because it’s another Spirit Visage stat line. When it comes down to it, a spell shield is a much more carry-oriented ability, because tanks won’t instantly die if caught out by stray crowd control. We’re reworking Banshee’s Veil’s statline to make it more enticing to carries.
				
				
					COST 2450 gold ⇒ 2700 gold
				
				
					BUILD PATH Spectre’s Cowl + Negatron Cloak + 530 gold ⇒ Fiendish Codex + Null-Magic Mantle + Blasting Wand + 500 gold
				
				
					newABILITY POWER 70
				
				
					newCOOLDOWN REDUCTION 10%
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 70 ⇒ 45
				
				
					removedHEALTH No longer grants health
				
				
					removedHEALTH REGENERATION No longer grants health regen
				
				
					UNIQUE PASSIVE Grants a spell shield that blocks the next enemy ability. This shield refreshes after no damage is taken from enemy champions for 40 seconds. (unchanged)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				updated
				Abyssal Scepter
				Now a tank item! Health added, ability power removed.
				
					Like Banshee’s Veil, Abyssal Scepter is an item whose passive doesn’t quite line up with its statline. An area-of-effect damage amp is much more appropriate for a durable champion 		that’s comfortable in the thick of things, but the ability power currently on there makes it much more appropriate for mages. We’re shifting stats around to make Abyssal Scepter the item for tanks who feel comfortable sacrificing raw durability to give their team a bit more damage.
				
				
					COST 2750 gold ⇒ 2800 gold
				
				
					newBUILD PATH Fiendish Codex + Negatron Cloak + Amplifying Tome + 695 gold ⇒ Spectre’s Cowl + Negatron Cloak + 880 gold
				
				
					newHEALTH 300
				
				
					BASE HEALTH REGENERATION +100%
				
				
					MAGIC RESIST 50 ⇒ 65
				
				
					COOLDOWN REDUCTION 10% (unchanged)
				
				
					removedABILITY POWER No longer grants ability power
				
				
					UNIQUE PASSIVE Nearby enemy champions take 10% more magic damage (unchanged)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				updated
				Guardian Angel
				Now a physical damage item! Attack damage added. Magic resist removed.
				
					Like Banshee’s Veil, the Guardian Angel passive is much more appropriate for carries who could easily find themselves bursted in an instant and in need of a second chance. While we toyed with the idea of finding a way to make the resurrection effect available in both magic damage and physical damage forms, mages have Zhonya’s Hourglass for a stasis effect, and two stasis effects makes for a really frustrating “playing against” case. As a result, we’re retuning Guardian Angel to have more appropriate stats for carries who churn out physical damage.
				
				
					TOTAL COST 2400 (unchanged)
				
				
					BUILD PATH Chain Vest + Negatron Cloak + 880 gold ⇒ B. F. Sword + Cloth Armor + 800 gold
				
				
					newATTACK DAMAGE 40
				
				
					ARMOR 60 ⇒ 30
				
				
					removedMAGIC RESIST No longer grants magic resist
				
				
					UNIQUE Passive Upon taking lethal damage, restore 30% of maximum health and 30% of maximum mana after 4 seconds of stasis (300 second cooldown) ⇒ 50% of base health and 30% of maximum mana after 4 seconds of stasis (300 second cooldown)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Sterak's Gage
				Base attack damage bonus up. Lifeline shield now scales with bonus health, not max health.
				
					Sterak’s Gage is supposed to be a clutch tankiness item for Juggernauts, giving them the base damage increase and burst of durability they need to withstand focused fire. We’re doubling down on that by tying its scaling to bonus health (rather than base health) and upping the damage scaling to boot. With their health-heavy builds and base attack damage, Juggernauts (and other fighters) should feel best about these changes - especially in the late game.
				
				
					HEALTH 400 (unchanged)
				
				
					BASE ATTACK DAMAGE +25% ⇒ +30%
				
				
					UNIQUE PASSIVE - LIFELINE Upon taking at least 400-1800 damage (based on level) within 5 seconds, gain a rapidly decaying shield for 30% of maximum health for 3 seconds ⇒ 75% of your bonus health for 8 seconds.
				
				
					STERAK’S FURY When Lifeline triggers, grow in size and strength, gaining +25% additional Base Attack Damage ⇒ +40% additional Base Attack Damage
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				updated
				Doran's Shield
				No longer reduces damage from basic attacks or single-target spells. Now regenerates health after taking damage from an enemy champion.
				
					Doran’s items give champions a lot of laning strength at the expense of mid-to-late game slot efficiency. In that context, Doran’s Shield is the item that lets you weather a tough lane, so we’re updating its passives to keep you in lane and help you last hit while you save up for your big-ticket items.
				
				
					COST 450 gold ⇒ 400 gold
				
				
					HEALTH 80 (unchanged)
				
				
					HEALTH REGENERATION +6 flat health regeneration per 5 seconds (unchanged)
				
				
					removedFLAT DAMAGE REDUCTION No longer reduces damage from basic attacks or single target spells
				
				
					newSHIELD SLAM Basic attacks deal +5 damage to minions on-hit
				
				
					newUNIQUE PASSIVE Regain 20 health over 10 seconds after taking damage from an enemy champion
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Lifesteal Items
	
		
			
				
					Blade of the Ruined King’s 7.6 update put it on the strong side, making it the go-to item for every marksman. Alongside with a small tune down BotRK (just a small one, given the durability changes), we’re giving other items a bit more power to restore diversity to the marksman itemization landscape. 
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Blade of the Ruined King
				
					COST 3300 gold ⇒ 3400 gold
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Death's Dance
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 75 ⇒ 80
				
				
					DAMAGE DEFERRED 15% ⇒ 30%
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				The Bloodthirster
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 75 ⇒ 80
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Ravenous Hydra
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 75 ⇒ 80
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Critical Strike Items
	
		
			
				
					Crit is an integral part of traditional marksman itemization but it’s been underperforming for a while. We’re giving marskmen earlier access to their one-and-a-half item power spike (Infinity Edge + Zeal, generally) while also sharpening the identities of each Zeal upgrade. 
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Infinity Edge
				
					COST 3600 gold ⇒ 3400 gold
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Essence Reaver
				
					COST 3600 gold ⇒ 3400 gold
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Zeal
				
					COST 1300 gold ⇒ 1200 gold
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Kircheis Shard
				
					COST 750 gold ⇒ 800 gold
				
				
					PROC DAMAGE 40 ⇒ 50
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Runaan's Hurricane
				
					Runaan’s Hurricane is supposed to be about area of effect damage and waveclear, but due to all the things it offers (smoothest build path among all Zeal items, best raw single target damage per second due to the on-hit damage and best area damage) it was simply the best choice in all cases. We’re shifting power to the secondary bolts - preserving Hurricane’s identity as the area-effect Zeal upgrade - but the other things must go.
				
				
					BUILD PATH Zeal + Recurve Bow + 300 gold ⇒ Zeal + Dagger + Dagger + 800 gold (total cost still 2600 gold)
				
				
					removedON-HIT DAMAGE No longer grants on-hit damage
				
				
					SECONDARY BOLT DAMAGE 25% total attack damage ⇒ 40% total attack damage
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Rapid Firecannon
				
					Rapid Firecannon and Statikk Shiv cannibalize each other’s strengths due to Energized proc damage not stacking between sources. We’re trying to better differentiate the two in ways that also make their combination more compelling (Long range chain lightning? We’re in there.) RFC is here to not only amp up your range but also charge your other Energized effects faster. Rapidly, one might say.
				
				
					COMBINE COST 550 gold ⇒ 600 gold (offsets component item cost changes; total cost still 2600 gold)
				
				
					DAMAGE TO CHAMPIONS 50-160 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 50-120 (at levels 1-18)
				
				
					newRAPIDITY Attacks become Energized 25% faster
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Statikk Shiv
				
					Rapid Firecannon and Statikk Shiv cannibalize each other’s strengths due to Energized proc damage not stacking between sources. We’re trying to better differentiate the two in ways that also make their combination more compelling (Long range chain lightning? We’re in there.) Shiv already had what it needed to be the burst-oriented option (remember: the lightning can crit for double the damage) so we’re tuning it to push that distinction harder.
				
				
					COMBINE COST 550 ⇒ 600 (offsets component item cost changes; total cost still 2600 gold)
				
				
					DAMAGE TO CHAMPIONS 50-120 (at levels 1-18) ⇒ 60-160 (at levels 1-18)
				
				
					BONUS DAMAGE VS MINIONS +120% (110-264 total damage) ⇒ +65% (99-264 total damage)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Phantom Dancer
				
					Phantom Dancer’s already doing its own thing pretty well, so we’re adjusting costs to match the other Zeal upgrades and calling it a day.
				
				
					TOTAL COST 2550 gold ⇒ 2600 gold
				
				
					COMBINE COST 650 gold ⇒ 800 gold
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Armor Penetration Items
	
		
			
				
					Let’s get straight to the point: between Lethality, Last Whisper, and Cleaver, there’s been too much armor penetration in the item system. With the shift in durability items to favor armor over health when dealing with physical damage dealers, those physical damage dealers can’t also have their current degree of effectiveness in mitigating those armor buffs.
					These numbers might look kinda harsh, but most of that power was siphoned into the crit and lifesteal item buffs above.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Last Whisper
				
					ARMOR PENETRATION 45% bonus armor ⇒ 35% bonus armor
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Lord Dominik's Regards
				
					COST 2700 gold ⇒ 2600 gold
				
				
					ARMOR PENETRATION 45% bonus armor ⇒ 35% bonus armor
				
				
					GIANT SLAYER DAMAGE AMP 15% ⇒ 20%
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Mortal Reminder
				
					COST 2700 gold ⇒ 2600 gold
				
				
					ARMOR PENETRATION 45% bonus armor ⇒ 35% bonus armor
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				The Black Cleaver
				
					ARMOR SHRED PER STACK 5% ⇒ 4%
				
				
					MAXIMUM SHRED 30% ⇒ 24%
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Support Items & Quests
	
		
			
				Earn enough gold from a support item to unlock a new effect.
				
					Playing well as a support often means intentionally foregoing actions that grant gold or experience - the two main axes of power in League. In the past, we’ve given supports their own unique items to prop up their lower gold income, but this led to problems (and subsequent nerfs) when other positions found ways to abuse them. We want to give supports additional rewards for good play that aren’t just gold and experience.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				updatedAncient Coin Line
				
				
					While the Targon’s and Spellthief’s lines encourage supports to play an active role in the laning phase (last-hitting/trading), Ancient Coin’s gameplay consists of “be in lane”. We want to make Ancient Coin’s rewards less consistently safe, allowing users more ways to show off skillful aggression while giving opponents more opportunity to punish mistakes.
				
				Favor update
				
					WAHOO! UNIQUE Passive - Favor: Nearby enemy minions killed by anyone other than Ancient Coin’s holder have a chance to drop either a gold or mana coin to picked up by the Coin user. (Think Thresh souls.) After one coin type has spawned, the next spawn is guaranteed to be the other type.
				
				
					MAGNETISM Coin pickup range scales moderately with champion attack range
				
				
					GOLD COINS 20 gold for Ancient Coin, increased to 30 gold for Nomad's Medallion, Talisman of Ascension, and Eye of the Oasis
				
				
					MANA COINS 8% of missing mana (minimum 15 mana)
				
				
					newLET’SA GO Ancient Coin and its upgrades now grant +2 gold per 10 seconds
				
				
					Supports often lag behind the rest of their team in experience, denying them access to base stats and skill ranks. Ancient Coin’s new quest gives supports a boost to stay competitive in ability ranks, granting them a skill point when they complete it.
				
				Quest rewards
				
					QUEST Complete Ancient Coin’s quest by earning 650 gold through its passive gold generation and the Favor passive, and upgrading to Nomad’s Medallion or higher (progress preserved through item upgrades)
				
				
					YOUR EMPEROR HAS RETURNED Favor is upgraded to Emperor’s Favor on quest completion, causing takedowns on enemy champions to spawn gold and mana coins
				
				
					ABOVE AND BEYOND On quest completion, gain an Elixir of Skill that instantly grants a skill point when consumed. (You still have a max of 18 skill points per game meaning you’ll finish leveling your abilities at level 17.) The elixir is automatically consumed if no inventory space is available.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Relic Shield Line
				
				
					Tanks want to be more tanky. A sweet shield - regenerated over time and accelerated by executing minions with Relic Shield - should give tank supports the durability they need to withstand poke, as well as a chunk of health to bolster their initiations.
				
				Quest rewards
				
					QUEST Complete Relic Shield’s quest by earning 650 gold through its passive gold generation and  the Spoils of War passive, and upgrading to Targon’s Brace or higher (progress preserved through item upgrades)
				
				
					USE PROTECTION Relic Shield’s item line gains Shield Battery on quest completion, granting a permanent shield for 250 (+5 per level) that regenerates out of combat. Executing minions accelerates the regeneration.
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Spellthief’s Edge Line
				
				
					Most mage supports already churn out pretty decent damage (looking at you, Zyra/Brand), so rather than give them more damage as a quest reward, we wanted to give them something that feels distinct from the mid lane experience. Extra mobility gives them a tool to dance in and out of fights, giving them a unique reason to be played as supports, rather than mid laners.
				
				Quest rewards
				
					QUEST Complete Spellthief’s Edge’s quest by earning 650 gold through its passive gold generation and the Tribute passive, and upgrading to Frostfang or higher (progress preserved through item upgrades)
				
				
					GOTTA GO FAST Tribute is upgraded to Queen’s Tribute on quest completion, causing procs to increase movement speed by 50% for 1 second
				
				Tribute mechanics
				
					DELIBERATION Individual spellcasts can only proc Tribute charges once every 1.25 seconds (ex. Morgana's W - Tormented Soil can only proc Tribute once every 1.25 seconds, but other spells that hit during the lockout will still proc Tribute)
				
				
					MINION PENALTY Last-hitting minions disables Tribute for 12 seconds, refreshing with subsequent minion kills ⇒ 6 seconds, stacking per minion kill. (Reminder: this penalty only affects Spellthief’s Edge and Frostfang)
				
				Frostfang
				
					BASE MANA REGEN 75% ⇒ 50%
				
				
					ABILITY POWER 15 ⇒ 20
				
				Frost Queen's Claim
				
					BASE MANA REGEN 75% ⇒ 50%
				
				
					ABILITY POWER 50 ⇒ 60
				
				Eye of the Watchers
				
					BASE MANA REGEN 100% ⇒ 50%
				
				
					ABILITY POWER 25 ⇒ 35
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Contribution Clarity
	
		
			
				
					Many aspects of League showcase damage and kills, but not many focus on what leads to those outputs - the stuns, heals, peels, and big beefy cows that set you up to kill the enemy squishies. We’re making the contributions of said unsung heroes more prominent, with the added benefit of improving tactical clarity for all. 
					This is our first step of many towards improving this space - look for more across the rest of the season. 
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Crowd Control Name Display
				
					Crowd control effects can be easy to lose amidst the hubbub of battle, even moreso in a full-on teamfight. By temporarily replacing Summoner Names with the name of the effect, recognition of this vital information goes up. With this, you can tell just how many friends Amumu’s trying to make.
				
				
					READING IS FUN When champions are crowd controlled, the name of the status effect replaces their summoner or champion name above their health bar until the effect ends
				
				
					ICON’T BELIEVE IT Crowd control icons have been updated!
				
				  
					 
											
			
		
	
	
		
			
				End of Game Stats
				
					Four new stats have been added to the End of Game screen for your perusing pleasure!
				
				
					TRY TO RUN ME THROUGH Damage Mitigated on Self (how much damage you reduced or blocked on yourself through your abilities and shields)
				
				
					ART OF WAR Damage Dealt to Objectives (damage dealt to Epic Monsters and Structures)
				
				
					LOOK TO THE HORIZON Damage Dealt to Turrets (...damage dealt to turrets.)
				
				
					NEVER SEE IT COMIN’ Vision Score (measuring how effective your vision contribution and denial was)
				
				
					HOLD UP Crowd Control Score (duration of all crowd control you applied over the game) *This one needs a bit more time in the shop. Look for it in a future patch!
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Active Item Feedback
				
					Ever wonder just how effectively you used your items? Wonder no longer, as we’re giving you numbers to track the answer to that very question. Gloat on, friends.
				
				Knight’s Vow: Damage Redirected and Healing Received
					Mikael’s Crucible: Successful Cleanses
					Redemption: Healing Done and Damage Dealt
				  
					 
											
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Spell Attribution VFX
				
					It can be hard to tell, and thus appreciate, who cast certain summoner spells or items on a target. This change adds a small VFX trail from caster to castee. 
				
				  
					 
										
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Death VFX
				
					Our old death VFX were too slow and too subtle. We want players (and viewers) to be able to instantly discern when an ally or enemy dies, so we updated the VFX to be much snappier. This better communicates the flow of a teamfight.
				
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				Active Item HUD
				
					The active (castable) portion of our items contain a lot of power and gold-efficiency … when used. This change adds a thicker and more prominent border to our major activatable items, reminding you to take full advantage of pickups such as Redemption, Zhonya’s Hourglass, and Blade of the Ruined King. 
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Rift Herald
	
		
			
				Rift Herald has new visuals, a new fighting style, and can be summoned to wreak havoc to turrets.
				
					We always wanted Rift Herald to be a compelling objective up toward top, but she’s historically failed to earn her place on the map. So, we revisited the encounter and its rewards for midseason. With a brand new fighting style (but same lack of protective eyewear), Rift Herald will feel like a more epic fight. Once defeated, the big changes come into play. She is imprisoned in a trinket that can be crushed to summon her. Once unleashed, she marches down to the nearest lane, ignoring enemy champions in her mindless drive to slam turrets (and inhibitors and the Nexus) into little pieces until killed. So maybe try to kill her while you still have a base left.
				
				The encounter
				
					SPAWN TIME 10 minutes (unchanged)
				
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 119-361 (based on level) ⇒ 100-250 (based on level)
				
				
					ATTACK SPEED 0.667 ⇒ 0.5
				
				
					ATTACK RANGE 150 ⇒ 250
				
				
					EYE OPENING CADENCE Every 3 seconds ⇒ 10 seconds, reduced by 2.5 seconds per champion attack
				
				
					BLIND SPOT Poking Rift Herald’s eye deals 12% of her maximum health as damage (unchanged)
				
				
					LEARNT MY LESSON Rift Herald won’t open her eye below 15% health
				
				
					OUT OF THE PIT Rift Herald can walk outside of the pit without losing aggro
				
				
					SHE’S PATIENT Rift Herald is more lenient towards swapping targets and leashing
				
				
					GOLD REWARD 50 (ish) global gold ⇒ 25 to her killer
				
				
					newLEEROY At the start of the fight, Rift Herald winds up and charges forward, knocking aside enemies she passes through and damaging them for double her attack damage
				
				
					newENRAGE At certain health thresholds, Rift Herald winds up for an attack that deals triple her attack damage in a cone in front of her
				
				The reward
				
					NEW Rift Herald is captured in the Eye of the Herald when killed. Any member of the team that killed Rift Herald can pick it up, temporarily replacing their trinket.
				
				
					CHAOS! Channeling Eye of the Herald for 3.5 seconds will crush it to summon Rift Herald from the void as your team’s ally
				
				
					NEW(ISH) Eye of the Herald grants Empowered Recall while held
				
				
					DURATION Eye of the Herald expires after 4 minutes if not used.
				
				Rift Herald returned
				
					CHAAARGE When summoned, Rift Herald will head to the nearest lane and starts killing enemy minions and structures
				
				
					HEALTH 4,000 - 6,400 (based on average level of game)
				
				
					MOVEMENT SPEED 425
				
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 80-200 (based on average champion level of all ten players)
				
				
					BASIC ATTACK 3% of Herald's current health in addition to Base AD
				
				
					TURRET LEAP ATTACK When Rift Herald approaches turrets she winds up and leaps into melee range, dealing 150 damage plus 25% of her current health to the turret and herself
				
				
					newENRAGE At certain health thresholds, Rift Herald winds up for an attack that deals double her attack damage in a cone in front of her (same as her encounter stage)
				
				
					BLINDSPOT Poking Rift Herald’s eye deals 20% of her maximum health as damage
				
				
					STAHP Rift Herald can be affected by most forms of crowd control
				
				
					EYE OPENING CADENCE Every 3 seconds
				
				
					DUCHESS SMASH Rift Herald disables turret backdoor defenses even when no allied minions are nearby
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Champions
	
		
			
				Magic Resist Per Level
				
					With Aegis of the Legion's old aura out of the game, squishy champions who were relying on it to give them enough magic resist find themselves a bit on the burstable side.
				
				
					HOORAY Champions who previously gained no magic resist per level now gain 0.5 per level
				
				
					AFFECTED CHAMPIONS Ahri, Anivia, Annie, Ashe, Aurelion Sol, Azir, Bard, Brand, Caitlyn, Cassiopeia, Corki, Draven, Elise, Ezreal, Fiddlesticks, Gnar, Graves, Heimerdinger, Janna, Jayce, Jhin, Jinx, Kalista, Karma, Karthus, Kassadin, Kayle, Kennen, Kindred, Kog’Maw, LeBlanc, Lissandra, Lucian, Lulu, Lux, Malzahar, Miss Fortune, Morgana, Nami, Nidalee, Orianna, Quinn, Rakan, Ryze, Sivir, Sona, Soraka, Swain, Syndra, Taliyah, Teemo, Thresh, Tristana, Twisted Fate, Twitch, Urgot, Varus, Vayne, Veigar, Vel’Koz, Viktor, Vladimir, Xayah, Xerath, Yasuo, Ziggs, Zilean, Zyra
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Graves
				Hmmm...
				
					Collateral Damage can have strong combo potential, but Graves can't have a built-in way to ignore its tradeoffs.
				
				General
				
					ONE THING AT A TIME Graves can no longer queue multiple spells during his basic attack animation
				
				
					BUT WHY This prevents an unintended interaction where Graves could remain in attack range after ulting by queuing both Collateral Damage and Quickdraw during the same attack animation
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Renekton
				
					Cleanin’ up a bunch of stuff.
				
				General
				
					PREMEDITATION Renekton no longer ignores inputs during his ability’s cast times. Once an ability has completed, he’ll move on to the next queued action.
				
				
					CONSOLIDATION Various buffs and timers tracked in the buff bar (ex. remaining time to cast Dice) are now tracked on their respective ability icons instead
				
				Passive - Reign of Anger
				
					BUGFIX Renekton’s first attack when (re)entering combat now properly grants the full 5 Fury
				
				Q - Cull the Meek
				
					BUGFIX Cull the Meek’s range now properly scales with all size-modifying effects, not just Dominus
				
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Cull the Meek wasn’t hitting Invisible units
				
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a bug where Renekton could basic attack at the same time as Cull the Meek’s damage was dealt
				
				E - Slice and Dice
				
					BUGFIX Fixed a timing issue that could inconsistently cause Slice and Dice to not hit enemies Renekton passes through
				
				R - Dominus
				
					BUGFIX No longer deals an extra tick of damage on-cast
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Ryze
				Spell Flux still spreads if its target dies while E is mid-air.
				
					We’re making Spell Flux more forgiving on higher-latency environments.
				
				E - Spell Flux
				
					LAG FORGIVENESS If Spell Flux’s target dies while the projectile is traveling, Spell Flux will still spread to nearby enemies
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Fizz
				
					Heading off what would’ve been an unintentionally harsh interaction with Maokai’s updated passive.
				
				W - Seastone Trident
				
					CAN’T SAP THIS MAGIC Seastone Trident’s damage-over-time ticks, including the initial application, no longer count as spell hits (matching similar persistent effects like Teemo’s Toxic Shot)
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				
				Shen
				
					Heading off what would’ve been an unintentionally harsh interaction with Maokai’s updated passive.
				
				Q - Twilight Assault
				
					CAN’T SAP THIS MAGIC Twilight Assault’s empowered attacks no longer count as spell hits
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Items
	
		
			
				
				Poacher's Dirk
				
					At its old price tag of 750 gold, Poacher’s Dirk was almost always a worse purchase than two Long Swords. We want to make Poacher’s Dirk a more competitive option, but we don’t want to power creep the item system. So we’re shrinking its cost and its stats. If you have the option to get two Long Swords, you’ll probably still want to go that route. But if you can’t pony up 700 gold, Poacher’s Dirk offers a chance to recover some tempo by making riskier plays, compared to the safer - but slower - option of stacking consumables instead. 
				
				
					COST 750 gold ⇒ 600 gold
				
				
					COMBINE COST 400 gold ⇒ 250 gold
				
				
					ATTACK DAMAGE 15 ⇒ 10
					
				
					COOLDOWN 60 seconds ⇒ 50 seconds
						
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Recall VFX
	
		
			
				Cleanin’ up a bunch of stuff.
				
					PIXEL CONSERVATION Cleaned up some excess particles
				
				
					WHERE DID MY RINGS GO Recall VFX no longer clip into the ground
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Summoner Spells
	
		
			
				
				Teleport
				
					Usability improvements.
				
				
					CLOSE ENOUGH If Teleport is cast off-screen, it’ll search for a nearby unit to target
				
				
					HI, RUMBLE Spells can no longer be queued during Teleport’s channel time
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Rotating Game Modes
	
		
			
				
					Dark Star: Singularity runs from 5/4/2017 at 11 AM PT to 5/15/2017 at 11:59 PM PT. Play as Dark Star Thresh in a 3v3 match on Cosmic Ruins, a new map with a Dark Star Thresh announcer and chilling new music.
				
				  
					 
								
				Hook or Flay opposing players and Abyss Scuttlers into the black hole in the center of the map to gain points
					You’ll fly further the more damage you’ve taken, but you can’t die from health loss
					The first team to 100 points wins the round, and the first team to win two rounds wins the game
				
					You can unlock two icons for this game mode. Look out for more information as the Dark Star nears.
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
	Queue Health Update
	
	
		
			What does this update mean?
			
		
		
			
				Ranked Solo/Duo
			
			
				Ranked Flex
			
        
	

	Back to top
	Bugfixes
	
		
			
				Enemies knocked out of a dash by displacement effects are now properly locked out of other actions (ex. Flash) for the duration of the displacement
					Vilemaw’s damage can no longer be avoided by standing in very specific spots along the wall
					Amumu's R - Curse of the Sad Mummy VFX no longer appear in the wrong place if Amumu flashes during its cast time
					Amumu's R - Curse of the Sad Mummy VFX no longer stay on the map forever if Amumu dies while casting it
					Redemption no longer erroneously counts as a spellcast for effects like Tear of the Goddess
					Shaco's clone no longer crashes the game if it dies in the fountain on ARAM
					Instances of Deathfire Touch are no longer overwritten by new instances that would expire sooner
					Singed’s Q - Poison Trail damage now increases as soon as he puts another skill point in it, rather than waiting until he toggles it off and on again
					Volibear's W - Frenzy attack speed bonus now increases as soon as he puts another skill point into it, rather than waiting until the buff falls off and is reapplied
					Fixed a bug that could cause Rakan’s Q - Gleaming Quill to cost no mana in certain situations
					Fixed a bug preventing Rakan from reliably proccing Kalista’s W - Sentinel soul-mark damage if he attacked too quickly after the mark was applied
					Udyr’s Q - Tiger Stance damage over time no longer melts wards
					Cosmic Dawn Rakan no longer leaves behind a purple ghost of himself after Recalling
					Similarly, Cosmic Dawn Rakan no longer turns himself purple when his Recall is cancelled
					Fixed Cosmic Dawn Rakan’s Recall and death audio
					Cosmic Dusk Xayah’s splash has been flipped in Xayah’s AIR client champion info page so she’s not covered up by the interface
					Fixed a Mac bug causing Cosmic Blade Master Yi’s W - Meditate and R - Highlander visual effects to flicker rapidly in some situations
					Fixed Conqueror Karma’s channeling animation (ex. when capturing Skarner’s Crystal Spires)
				
		
	
	Back to top
	Upcoming Skins & Chromas
	
		
			
				The following skins will be released in patch 7.9!
				
					
						
						Dark Star Kha'Zix
					
					
						
						Dark Star Orianna
					
				
			
		
	
	
		
			
				The following chromas will be released in patch 7.9!
				
					
						
						Sandstorm Ekko
					
					
						
							
							Officer Vi
												
					
					
						
						Warlord Shen
					
				
			
		
	
	Back to top
"
"10" NA
